SAN FRANCISCO - Zynga unveiled on Tuesday a social network for gamers, dubbed Zynga With Friends, hoping to wean itself from a longstanding, symbiotic relationship with Facebook that has shaped two of Silicon Valley's closely watched Internet companies.
The game publisher said its new network will pair gamers with opponents and make features like player profiles, activity streams and chats available for all users, regardless of whether they play the games on mobile devices or desktop computers.
Zynga With Friends is "one network, one unified experience, and one social lobby that will, for the first time, connect all of our players, no matter where they're playing", said Mr Manuel Bronstein, a senior Zynga executive, at a press event in San Francisco.
"The new social features and services are designed for the sole purpose of bringing more people to play together."
The company will provide programming tools to help third-party developers publish online and mobile games based on its own software, to foster an ecosystem that will expand its titles beyond mainstays such as FarmVille and Zynga Poker.
The company also announced FarmVille 2, a sequel to its mega-hit resource-management title, and Matching With Friends, an addition to a suite of smartphone games that includes the popular Words With Friends.
Zynga's moves, though long expected, have stirred speculation about the future of its cosy partnership with Facebook, which owed 15 per cent of its first-quarter revenue to fees from Zynga.
The two companies also confirmed recently that Facebook has begun showing ads from its inventory inside Zynga games, which are played by some 290 million people.
Meanwhile, Facebook's reach of close to one billion users has helped distribute Zynga's games and propel the publisher to a dominant position in the social-gaming industry.
Asked to comment, Facebook said: "It's exciting to see Zynga continue to build with Facebook across Web and mobile platforms."
Meanwhile, Zynga executives took pains to stress that the expansion of its own social network did not threaten its existing relationship with Facebook.
Executives said its platform could potentially have as many as 290 million users, with some 2.8 billion daily social interactions, once it is rolled out, although a launch date was not specified.
Zynga executives also said they will provide developers a set of "application-programming interfaces" to make it easier for them to craft games using Zynga's software.
The company also announced new titles, including ChefVille, a kitchen-management game, and The Ville, a game resembling The Sims that allows users to build homes and dress their avatars to interact and pursue romantic relationships with other users.
