SEOUL - North Korea has set up the first-stage booster on a launchpad in the northwest part of the country in preparation for its planned rocket launch this month, South Korean government sources said Saturday.
The sources said the South Korean government confirmed the booster for the missile - which Pyongyang claims will carry a satellite - was erected in Tongchang-ri of North Pyongan Province, North Korea.
The injection of liquid fuel will start after the second- and third-stage units are assembled, the sources said.
Despite strong opposition by Japan, the United States, South Korea and other countries to the plan, the latest development shows North Korea has entered the final stage of preparations for the launch.
The setting up of the first-stage booster was confirmed by analysis of data from a US reconnaissance satellite.
According to the sources, the first-stage booster was assembled vertically on the launchpad, which is about 50 meters high, at the new missile base in Tongchang-ri completed last year.
US and South Korean authorities believe the second- and third-stage units will be set up by early this week, followed by the injection of liquid fuel from an underground facility.
The liquid fuel used by North Korea is said to be highly corrosive, making it difficult to store in a fuel tank for a long time after its injection, according to military experts.
For this reason, the fuel will be injected a few days before the launch.
"No delays have been seen thus far, from the transportation of the missile body to the base to its assembly. We believe the launch will be carried out as announced," a source said.
North Korea announced it will launch the rocket in the period from April 12 to 16.
Starting Wednesday, North Korea is scheduled to hold a series of political events, including a representatives' meeting of the Workers' Party of Korea.
During this meeting, the North's new leader, Kim Jong Un, is expected to assume the hermetic country's highest posts, such as the general secretary of the party.
Another diplomatic source said North Korea will "fire the missile by April 15, [to celebrate the] 100th [anniversary of the] birthday of late President Kim Il Sung...and the completion of the power succession."
The timing of the launch may be affected by weather conditions. However, some South Korean media reported that April 14 is the most likely launch date, given that the North has invited foreign media to arrive in Pyongyang on April 12.
According to Radiopress Inc., North Korea's Korean Central Broadcasting Station reported Friday that the weather is expected to be "fine" on Thursday and "fine, with occasional cloudy weather" on Friday in the northwestern part of the country, where Tongchang-ri is located.
On March 26, North Korea announced preparations for the launch were "in the final stage and successfully in progress."
The Saturday issue of Rodong Sinmun, the official newspaper of the Workers' Party of Korea, reiterated that the planned "satellite launch" will be carried out "entirely with our country's power and technology."
