As Comrade Bo Xilai is suspected of being involved in serious discipline violations, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China has decided to suspend his membership of the CPC Central Committee Political Bureau and the CPC Central Committee, in line with the CPC Constitution and the rules on investigation of CPC discipline inspection departments.
The Central Commission for Discipline Inspection of the CPC will file the case for investigation.
Police set up a team to reinvestigate the case concerning British citizen Neil Heywood who was found dead in Chongqing on Nov 15.
Former Chongqing police chief Wang Lijun made allegations concerning the case, Xinhua News Agency learned from authorities. Wang entered, without authorization, the US general consulate in Chengdu on Feb 6 and stayed there for one day.
Police gave the case priority and set up a team to reinvestigate the case to uncover the facts.
According to the reinvestigation, Bogu Kailai, wife of Bo Xilai, and their son were on good terms with Heywood. However, they had a financial dispute.
According to the reinvestigation, evidence indicated that Heywood died by homicide, and Bogu Kailai and Zhang Xiaojun, an orderly at Bo's home, are highly suspected.
Bogu Kailai and Zhang have been transferred to judicial authorities as suspects in the crime of intentional homicide.
According to senior officials from related authorities, China is a socialist country ruled by law, and the sanctity and authority of law shall not be trampled on. Whoever has broken the law will face justice, no matter who is involved.
A commentary piece by the official People's Daily on Wednesday says Wang Lijun's unauthorized entry into the US general consulate in Chengdu is a serious political incident that has caused repercussions both in China and the world.
The commentary, which was released early Wednesday morning by Xinhua, said the death of Heywood is a "severe criminal case that involves families and close staff of a leader of the Party and the State".
What Bo has done has seriously violated Party discipline, brought loss to the Party and the country, and tarnished the image of the Party and the country, it said.
The resolute decision of the CPC Central Committee to thoroughly investigate and deal with the case, as well as the timely release of relevant information, is a firm endorsement of the socialist rule of law, the commentary added.
Facts show that the Party represents the interests of the people and is supervised by the people, it said.
The Party has zero tolerance of corruption and will investigate all violations of law and discipline, the commentary said.
No citizen stands above the law. Under no circumstances do Party members stand above the law. No one can interfere with the enforcement of justice. People who break the law will not escape the consequences of their actions and will face punishment, according to the commentary.
With facts as the basis and the law as the yardstick, the Wang Lijun incident, the death of British citizen Heywood and serious discipline violations by Bo Xilai will be investigated thoroughly. Only by doing this can the public witness the determination of the Party to safeguard Party discipline and the rule of the law, it said.
The commentary said the country should focus on development and strive to maintain the current progress of reform, development and stability to greet the 18th National Congress of the CPC later this year.
