BEIJING - Speaking to journalists last month, disgraced Chinese leader Bo Xilai was at pains to portray his wife as a stay-at-home mother who sacrificed her legal career to support his political ambitions.
Officially Gu Kailai, who is being investigated for involvement in the murder of a British businessman, put her career on hold when her high-flying husband took over as Communist Party secretary of the southwestern city of Chongqing.
But the 53-year-old Gu, who has a reputation as an ambitious and determined woman, was always an unlikely candidate for the quiet life.
Since her husband was sacked as Chongqing leader last month rumours have swirled that she was involved in business dealings with Neil Heywood, a 41-year-old British man who had settled in China. He was found dead in November.
On Tuesday, the state news agency Xinhua appeared to confirm those business dealings when it reported that Gu and the couple's son, Bo Guagua, had fallen out with Heywood over "economic interests".
Gu began working as a lawyer in 1987, later setting up her own law firm, which she called Kailai after herself.
Before giving up her career in 2001, she won plaudits as the first Chinese lawyer to successfully challenge a legal decision through the US courts - an experience she recounted in two books that became bestsellers in China.
Ed Byrne, an American lawyer who worked with Gu, recalls her as "smart, charismatic, attractive". "I was very impressed with her," he said in a BBC television interview.
Like Bo, she is the daughter of a prominent Communist leader, and like him, she studied at the prestigious University of Beijing.
The pair first met in 1984 while she was on a research trip near the eastern city of Dalian as part of her universities studies, where Bo had taken a post as a local party secretary.
They married two years later and in 1987 had a son, Bo Guagua, who graduated from Oxford and is now at Harvard pursuing a post graduate degree.
"He was very much like my father, that sort of extremely idealistic person," Gu told the Southern Weekend, a local weekly publication, recalling her first encounter with Bo in an interview published in 2009.
"He lived in a small dirty room. He offered me an apple before telling me about his ideas."
She has followed him since, turning down the opportunity to study in the United States and building a reputation as a hard-working self-made woman. Until March she was always portrayed as a role model in Chinese media.
Gu was born into an influential family - her father was the renowned general Gu Jingsheng - but she has said her childhood was not an easy one.
Her parents were detained during the Cultural Revolution and her four sisters were sent to the countryside for re-education, forcing her to drop out of school and scrape a living variously as a construction worker, a butcher and a lute player.
She is now at the centre of the biggest political scandal to hit China in decades.
