The average monthly concentration of carbon dioxide has topped 400 parts per million in Ofunato, Iwate Prefecture, the first time this level has been reached in Japan, raising alarm about greenhouse gases that can cause global warming.
The Japan Meteorological Agency said 401.2 ppm of CO2 was recorded at an observation point in the city in March, and this figure was then eclipsed in April by a measurement of 402.2 ppm.
The average CO2 concentration in Ofunato was about 350 ppm in 1987, when the agency started recording the levels.
CO2 is believed to be the greenhouse gas that is the largest contributor to global warming. If the global average concentration of CO2 tops 400 ppm, observers believe it will become very difficult to keep the temperature rise since the Industrial Revolution of the 18th and 19th centuries to less than 2 degrees Celsius.
"Japan also needs to make further efforts to halt deforestation and cut fossil fuel consumption," the agency said Wednesday.
Figures recorded on islands in southern parts of Japan also have rung alarm bells.
The agency has been observing CO2 levels at Minami-Torishima island in Ogasawara, Tokyo, and Yonagunijima island in Yonaguni, Okinawa Prefecture. The monthly average figure in April at these sites reached 398.1 ppm and 399.4 ppm, respectively--both record highs.
The CO2 level generally peaks in spring and drops during summer as plants photosynthesize more. The level starts to rise again around autumn.
Although there are seasonal fluctuations, annual average figures at the three observation points have continued to gradually rise.
The world's annual average CO2 concentration in the air was about 280 ppm before the Industrial Revolution. It has been rising since; in 2010 it reached 389 ppm, up 2.3 ppm from the previous year.
Monthly CO2 figures are recorded at 160 points around the globe. Concentrations at 21 observation points in the Northern Hemisphere have exceeded 400 ppm. Scientists believe this is mainly because the Northern Hemisphere has more land and human activity than the Southern Hemisphere.
"We must try to keep global temperatures from rising to avoid serious ecosystem disruptions and the occurrence of major natural disasters," the agency added.
