TOKYO - A Humboldt penguin that escaped from an aquarium in Edogawa Ward, Tokyo, in March has been repeatedly spotted swimming in Tokyo Bay.
Zoological experts believe the penguin does not intend to leave Tokyo Bay, perhaps because it likes the fish in the area.
One expert said, "Tokyo Bay is a good habitat for penguins."
The penguin escaped from Tokyo Sea Life Park (Kasai Rinkai Suizoku-en) run by the Tokyo metropolitan government.
Humboldt penguins are accustomed to living in relatively warm waters along the Peruvian and Chilean coasts. The population is estimated at between 20,000 and 40,000 in the wild.
International commercial trade of Humboldt penguins is restricted under the Washington Convention on International Trade of Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. There are about 1,700 Humboldt penguins in Japan, of which 134 are kept at the Tokyo park.
At around 8:50 a.m. on May 7, the Tokyo Coast Guard Office received a report that a penguin was swimming in waters near Shiokaze Park.
The coast guard office dispatched a patrol vessel and special rescue boat to the area, where the crew spotted a penguin with a yellow identification tag on its right wing.
The crew of the special rescue boat approached the penguin, but were unable to catch it. About an hour later, they lost sight of the penguin.
On May 8, the penguin was seen off Harumi Pier, about three kilometers away. On May 12, the penguin was spotted near Rainbow Bridge.
The penguin was born at Tokyo Sea Life Park in January last year. It is a very young bird of unknown sex. However, the bird is about the size of an adult penguin, which measures about 60 centimeters to 70 centimeters long.
At the sea life park, the penguin was not given a name and referred to as "337," its ID number.
On the evening of March 3, 2012, an official of a bird park saw a penguin swimming near the mouth of Old Edogawa river. The No. 337 penguin was then found to have escaped.
Park officials assumed the penguin climbed onto a rock hill in an outdoor exhibition space and escaped through a gap in a double fence.
Soon after the penguin was discovered missing, it was seen downstream in the Arakawa river. Since then, the penguin has been spotted about 30 times. Although it has gradually migrated westward, it has shown no signs of leaving Tokyo Bay.
At the park, penguins have managed to escape on two occasions, but in both cases, were successfully recaptured in nearby bushes.
This is the first time that a runaway penguin as reached the sea. Kazuhiro Sakamoto, deputy director of the Tokyo Sea Life Park, said, "The penguin might have developed a behavioral response to search for a new colony."
Regarding the reason why the penguin has not yet left Tokyo Bay, Kazuoki Ueda, a researcher at nonprofit organization Penguin Conference Japan, said: "Penguins have a homing instinct. So it may be unable to live far from the park where it was born."
In a similar case in South Africa, a penguin was released into the sea about 800 kilometers away, but it swam back to its original habitat.
Tokyo Bay has plenty of fish favored by penguins, such as young sweetfish and goby, and the waters are calm.
Though park officials are brainstorming ways to recapture the penguin, it is a difficult task as Humboldt penguins can stay underwater for nearly five minutes and swim at speeds of 30 kph to 40 kph.
Because penguins return to land at around sunset to sleep, officials are hoping to recapture the penguin when it is asleep. However, there are many areas along the coast of Tokyo Bay where a penguin can go unnoticed by humans. The penguin has yet to be spotted on land.
As a result, No. 337 will likely continue enjoying life on the run for the time being.
