Chief Executive Donald Tsang bowed to the public on Friday, in apologizing for his personal conduct and for causing disappointment to the civil service.
Two reports published on Thursday faulted Tsang's conduct, just a month before the curtain falls on his 45-year public service career.
Looking solemn, Tsang went before television cameras and reiterated an unreserved acceptance of the findings of the two reports, after a morning cabinet meeting.
"We recognize clean government is the core societal value of Hong Kong. We also entirely recognize and agree that there are extremely high expectations for the integrity of public officials," he said.
He pledged to start working on the reports' recommendations right away to pave the way for the incoming administration.
The speech wound up with an apology.
"My personal mishandling of various events has shaken the people's confidence in the integrity of the system and has disappointed civil service colleagues. Again, I sincerely apologize to everyone," he said.
As Tsang choked back bitter tears, the top man in the city's administration stood quiet, as if about to speak again.
Then he abruptly turned his back and walked back to his office, as reporters tried to fire questions at him.
The Chief Executive was expected to address the matter again at the Legislative Council on June 14 when he turns up for his last question-and-answer session.
There was little sympathy for the outgoing Chief Executive in political circles.
The opposition called for Tsang to resign and the Liberal Party suggested Tsang donate his benefits to charity.
Starry Lee Wai-king from the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong said the apology was "too late to cool the public fury".
She said she was deeply disappointed that an experienced public officer had failed to avoid unnecessary extravagance.
In March, Tsang spent a night on a private yacht in Macao, where he was photographed by paparazzi.
Tsang later said the yacht owner, businessman Joseph Lau Luen-hung, was paid the price of a ferry ticket for a one-way ride and accommodation.
An independent committee then was formed to evaluate the regulations on conflict of interest for the Chief Executive.
The committee concluded that it was "totally inappropriate" to exempt the top public officer from provisions regarding the acceptance of benefits under present rules.
Tsang promised to put the 36 reports' recommendations into practice in phases.
Short term measures, including key officials' declarations of interest and statistics on Executive Council members' withdrawal from meetings, will be introduced as soon as possible.
The incoming administration will be kept apprised.
The Chief Executive Office was also targeted by the director of audit on Thursday for failing to justify booking the CE into top-end suites, including some last minute upgrades during his duty visits. The office held an evaluation meeting with overseas representative offices on Friday in the wake of the finding.
Raymond Tam Chi-yuen, secretary for constitutional and mainland affairs, had looked after the CE's office for two years before being promoted. He said he took full responsibility for the errors in judgment.
