BEIJING - A dramatic account has emerged of how the US embassy in Beijing sent a car to pick up Chinese dissident Chen Guangcheng, who was bundled into the vehicle in an alleyway as Chinese agents gave chase.
The account by the New York Times appears to answer some of the unanswered questions surrounding how the blind lawyer came to be in the US embassy after escaping house arrest several hundred kilometres (miles) away.
The Times said that a bloodied Chen, after clambering over several walls under cover of darkness to flee his guards on April 22, was driven by a friend from his home in the northeastern province of Shandong to the capital.
There, he was moved from house to house by supporters before deciding he wanted to go to the US embassy, the paper said, citing Chen's supporters and an unidentified US official involved in the discussions over the dissident's fate.
One friend contacted the embassy, explaining that Chen had a serious foot injury sustained during his escape and needed help.
State Department legal adviser Harold Koh, who happened to be in Beijing, consulted top US officials, before deciding that Chen qualified for short-term humanitarian assistance, the paper quoted a US official as saying.
It was agreed that the embassy would send a car to rendezvous with Chen's vehicle several kilometres from the US diplomatic compound, and that the lawyer would then be transferred into the embassy car.
The Times said that as the two vehicles were about to meet, the Americans noticed Chinese security cars tailing them, one behind the embassy car, the other behind the car carrying Chen.
Chen's car moved into an alley, the embassy vehicle drew alongside it and the lawyer was pushed into the US vehicle, it said.
The Americans managed to shake off the two Chinese security cars and took Chen to the embassy. Once inside, diplomats imposed an information blackout, refusing to comment on whether Chen was holed up there.
At this point, the Americans started negotiations with senior Chinese foreign ministry officials over Chen's fate, the report added.
Over the following days, US diplomats shuttled between Chen at the embassy and foreign ministry officials led by Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai.
The Times said that US ambassador Gary Locke rushed back from a holiday in Bali to join the negotiations and spent several hours each day talking to Chen. Chinese state media on Friday singled out Locke for strident criticism.
After accepting a deal brokered by the US and Chinese sides, Chen agreed to leave the embassy. But he later decided he wanted to seek US asylum, after being reunited with his wife, who told him she had been threatened.
