BEIJING - US Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner Thursday urged China to allow its currency to appreciate further and also speed up economic reforms, which he said were crucial to the global recovery.
However his comments at the start of two-day talks between the world's two biggest economies were overshadowed by a rights row that has threatened already strained relations.
US officials have long accused Beijing of keeping the value of the yuan artificially low to boost exports, leading to a massive Chinese trade surplus with the United States.
Geithner said China's currency had appreciated by around 13 per cent against the US dollar over the past two years, but urged more gains.
"A stronger, more market-determined renminbi (yuan) will help reinforce China's reform objectives of moving to higher value-added production, reforming the financial system and encouraging domestic demand," Geithner said.
He was speaking at the annual Strategic and Economic Dialogue, which has been upstaged by the case of a blind Chinese activist Chen Guangcheng who on Wednesday left the US embassy where he had sought refuge after fleeing house arrest last week.
Washington had hoped to showcase small signs of progress in relations with China at the meeting, but the Chen case has sparked fresh tensions, with Beijing demanding an apology for what it called "interference" in its affairs.
Beijing defends its exchange rate regime, saying it is moving gradually to make its currency more flexible and last month it loosened some controls over the yuan by allowing it to trade in a wider range either side of a set level.
Geithner also said China should move forward with economic reforms, including allowing more foreign competition, saying it was important to the United States.
"In China, you are in the process of exploring the next frontier of economic reforms, recognising as your predecessors did more than 30 years ago that future economic growth will require another fundamental shift in economic policy," Geithner said.
"The United States has a strong interest in the success of these reforms, as does the rest of the world," he said. Such reforms included relying more on domestic consumption than exports to drive the world's second largest economy, allowing private firms a greater role than state-owned giants and modernising the financial system, he said.
Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan, who is representing China in the economic portion of the talks, said the country had made progress and urged the United States not to "politicise" economic issues.
He said China had expanded imports and improved protection of intellectual property rights, another key sticking point between the two countries.
"We hope the US side will take concrete steps to relax control on hi-tech exports to China, expand infrastructure cooperation, increase financial market access and avoid politicising economic issues," Wang said.
Beijing has repeatedly called on the United States to loosen its controls on exports of hi-tech products to China, some imposed to prevent sensitive US technology from being used for military applications.
