A group of 14 students from the National University of Singapore's (NUS) architecture school have come up with a design plan for the Nalanda University in India, which is being revived through the collective efforts of Singapore, India, China and Japan.
The plan, The Nalanda University: A Mother Plan for the 21st Century Campus, was an educational exercise. However, the group intends to take part in a global competition for the best architectural design for the university, which is expected to be held later in the year. The group members are all of Chinese ethnicity and two are exchange students from the Nanjing University of China.
Year 4 student of the NUS School of Design and Environment, Department of Architecture, Quek See Hong, told tabla! that the academic exercise was aimed at pushing the boundaries and understanding what Nalanda University can be.
He said: "The project represented an unprecedented opportunity to study, debate and design, to address many of the real and current issues that challenge Asia and the world today. As Asians, this invigorated us with a sense of purpose towards uncovering Nalanda's ancient wisdom as well as shaping new perspectives for the university."
Nalanda University, which was an ancient centre of learning in north-eastern India, thrived between the 5th and 12 centuries. It was one of the first great universities of the world and attracted scholars and pupils from places as far as Turkey, Korea, Japan and China.
The NUS students were guided in their project by well-known Singaporean architect and adjunct professor at NUS' Department of Architecture Tay Kheng Soon.
Prof Tay took the group on a week-long trip to the Nalanda site to help them better understand the environment and the challenges.
The group thus came up with a plan that is inclusive of farming on the 180ha site, to make it self-sufficient in food supply and also involve the local communities in various aspects of development. Which was how the ancient university also functioned, with local communities supplying food and other necessities.
Prof Tay told tabla! that their trip to the site from Jan 30 to Feb 6 this year was an enlightening experience and helped the students better understand the true meaning of development. The touring party also met the vice-chancellor of the university Gopa Sabharwal.
He said: "We went to Kolkata, to Rabindranath Tagore's school at Santiniketan, visited Bodhgaya and Rajgir (the site of the university). We took a train and along the way we were surprised by wandering minstrels, magicians who came on board at every stop. It was wonderful to see that culture and necessity made the ancient tradition very much alive. We wish that culture does not disappear with development."
He said that through their plan they wanted to highlight that approach towards education is "also about society and caring for the people and the land, nature, agriculture, native wisdom, as well as taking a regional outlook and not a view from an ivory tower. We wanted to create a creative and caring institution."
On April 30, the student group discussed and reviewed their plan with other architecture students, researchers, academics and diplomats at the Nalanda-Siriwijaya Centre at the NUS.
Mr Quek highlighted that the emphasis of the plan was such that it aids in making long-term decisions throughout the lifespan of the campus.
He said: "We believe that Nalanda represents a wealth of ancient Asian wisdom that needs to be rediscovered and explored. It was a global centre of education, of scale and calibre unlike any other in its time. The new Nalanda can be just that, but only if it looks towards the past as much as it looks into the future."
Prof Tay hoped that that new Nalanda University will emulate the ancient centre by integrating the whole person, one imbued with the necessary skills, intellect and emotional capacity to empathise, with a commitment to the well-being of all people, places and nature.
He said: "The ancient Nalanda was about yogacara, going beyond ego and getting to the focal point of consciousness and conscience; allowing discursiveness yet enabling the attention to focus so deep that a new universe of possibilities unfolds in one's mind.
"Yogacara was what drew Xuan Zang (famous Chinese traveller and Buddhist monk) from Tang China to Nalanda. Nalanda was relevant then, and it is relevant in today's troubled times when human societies are seeking lost moorings and new beginnings."
The Nalanda University is expected to be functional by 2013. It will have seven different schools and continue to expand.
The idea to revive the university, which was destroyed by invaders at various times, was proposed in 2006 by then Indian president A.P.J. Abdul Kalam.
The total cost of setting up the university and getting it up and running has been estimated to be about US$500 million. Though the bulk of the expenses are being met by the Indian government, the project also has the support of ASEAN with funding offers from China, Singapore, Australia and Laos.
A Nalanda Mentor Group was set up by the Indian government in 2007 to oversee the progress of the university. The group is headed by Nobel laureate Amartya Sen.
Singapore's former foreign minister George Yeo is also part of the group.
ankitav@sph.com.sg
