President Ma Ying-jeou announced the new adjustment plan of the electricity rates at 22:00 yesterday after a meeting of high-ranking government officials in the Presidential Office.
According to Ma, the electricity rates will be adjusted 40 per cent on June 10 and another 40 per cent on Dec. 10.
"The final 20 per cent of adjustment will be made if the Taiwan Power Company (Taipower) can provide a feasible restructuring plan," the president stated.
The president said that for households and businesses using less than 330 kilowatts a month, the electricity rates will not be changed. Change of off-peak electricity rates will be reduced from 62 per cent to 50 per cent.
Ma said 7.56 million families and 300,000 businesses will not be affected under the new adjustment plan.
Some 99.4 per cent of all energy in Taiwan relies on imported fuel, Ma said.
And thus the government cannot freeze the electricity prices and subsidize energy consumption.
The user-pays principle must be obeyed, according to Ma.
The Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA) made estimates under different adjustment plans - increasing the electricity rates once and for all, increasing the electricity rates gradually, and freezing the electricity rates.
"We decided to increase the electricity rates once and for all to keep Taipower solvent," said the president.
"This is a tough decision, but the decision is not avoidable," Ma said.
"I believe most people believe in the user-pays principle, however, the amount of increase is too drastic for people to bear,"Ma stated.
"I am sorry to cause the agony stemming from the price hikes,"stated the president. "The committee for stabilizing prices of the Executive Yuan will continue the price inspection to prevent driving up prices," Ma promised.
The Directorate-General of Budget, Accounting and Statistics estimated that inflation this year will be 1.94 per cent, Ma said.
"I believe the decision of gradual increases to the electricity rates will help us to contain inflation at under 2 per cent more easily," the president said.
There Should Not Be Any Increase: DPP
Commenting on the president's statement, Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) spokesman Lin Yu-chang stated that the DPP maintains its position that the electricity rates should not increase at all.
Earlier yesterday, DPP legislators stated that the core problem still lies within Taipower.
Taipower should review its purchase contracts and reduce its waste, and as a result the electricity rates would not need to rise, according to DPP legislators.
KMT legislators also voiced their support and sense of relief when asked about the gradual increases of electricity rates earlier yesterday. KMT legislators stated that the Executive Yuan finally heard the voices from the people.
