BEIJING - China's media reported Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao's remarks during Sunday's talks with Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda in a way that suggested the Senkaku islands in the East China Sea are part of China's "core interests."
Wen and Noda exchanged harsh words over the small island chain during the bilateral talks in Beijing.
On Sunday evening, China Central TV and the official Xinhua News Agency reported that Wen mentioned the issues of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, where there is an ongoing separatist movement, and the Senkakus.
The media said Wen then urged Japan to respect China's "core interests and major concerns."
Core interests are issues that the Chinese government regards vital to ensure the Chinese Communist Party's continued leadership of the nation.
The state-run broadcaster and news agency thus presented Wen's statement in a way that viewers could take to mean that the Senkaku islands are part of China's core interests.
At Sunday's meeting, Noda stressed the Senkaku chain was an inherent part of Japanese territory, and called for self-restraint on the part of China, saying, "China's stepped-up activities in areas including those around the Senkaku islands are inflaming Japanese public opinion."
At a press conference on Monday morning, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said, "Chinese Premier Wen did not make any comment linking the Senkaku issue to China's core interests."
According to a source involved in the Japan-China relationship, the Chinese government also explained to Japan that Wen's comments regarding Beijing's core interests were not about the Senkaku chain.
The Chinese state media apparently attempted to portray the Senkaku Islands as part of China's core interests because expressions of public discontent over the issue on the Internet and through other means are growing in China.
This comes against a backdrop of recent steps taken by Japan over the Senkaku issue, including Tokyo Gov. Shintaro Ishihara's announcement of a plan to purchase part the islands.
