The new school year started Monday at many primary and middle schools in disaster-hit Miyagi Prefecture.
The month of April is also the start of a teaching career for some teachers in the prefecture.
One of them is Namiko Akahira, 27, who was assigned to teach at Matsugahama Primary School in Shichigahama, Miyagi Prefecture.
When the Great East Japan Earthquake occurred last year, Akahira was temporarily assigned to Shizugawa Primary School in Minami-Sanriku in the prefecture.
She stayed at the school for a week with children who had lost their homes in the tsunami.
Her experience strongly motivated her to become a primary school teacher to further support children.
She followed her ambition and has taken a new step in her career this spring.
Akahira's goal was to become a primary school teacher after graduating from Miyagi University of Education in 2007.
While she was teaching students about handicrafts at Shizugawa Primary School on March 11 last year, strong tremors hit the school.
She rushed the students to the school's gymnasium, which like most of the school is located on higher ground.
While taking shelter there, the mother of one student rushed into the school, soaking wet, shouting, "All our houses were washed away by tsunami."
Teachers spent the night with all of the students in the school building, where no water or food was available. They stayed there for a week.
Even in such an extreme situation, no child cried.
They gave each other encouragement, saying, "I hope our parents will come to the school to pick us up soon." They acted cheerfully and tried not to worry others.
The strength exhibited by these children inspired the adults around them, but Akahira also felt the children were stressed out and endured their sorrow quietly.
She thought, "I'll make the best of this challenging situation for the children and we will overcome this difficulty."
Akahira took an employment exam to become a full-time teacher in July, four months after the disaster, and she got an informal job offer last autumn.
The town where she would work, Shichigahama, also suffered serious damage from the tsunami and many students at the school lost their homes.
Akahira became a homeroom teacher of class No. 1 for the second-year students. In the classroom, she introduced herself, saying, "Call me Namiko-sensei [Teacher Namiko]."
She still keeps the letters sent from her students at Shizugawa Primary School in a desk drawer at home. Some students wrote things like, "I want to be in Namiko-sensei's class again."
Akahira wants to become a teacher students are fond of at her new school and tell her former students at Shizugawa Primary School that she is doing well in her new job.
