THAILAND - United Kingdom health experts have cautiously commended Thai authorities' responses to last year's flood crisis, but called for improvements in inter agency cooperation and in planning in the future.
A team from the UK's Health Protection Agency (HPA) has spent two weeks studying the health risks associated with the flooding.
The visit, part of the UK's response to the natural disaster in Thailand, took the experts to some affected areas and allowed them to observe surveillance methods and meet senior officials of the Public Health Ministry.
The team's review of the situation would be released soon.
Dr Mark Salter, the team leader, was impressed by the flexibility and professionalism of Thai health personnel, who, he said, must have played a role in defusing potential health crises during and after the flooding.
But Thailand would need closer coordination among agencies and academics so that the country would be better prepared when similar disasters strike in the future, he said.
"Limited planning meant decisions had to be made on the hoof without always adequate time for consideration of the evidence. Pre-planning and working with academic partners would have allowed development of contingency arrangements, such as identification of flood plains and key buildings that might be suitable as shelters.
"In addition, consideration could have been given to stockpiling medical supplies, especially for those individuals with non-communicable diseases (like diabetes, asthma) who were forced from their homes due to rising floodwater," he said.
"From a public health view, the most urgent issue should be to review how the health infrastructure responded to the unfolding crisis and how the system, including surveillance systems, might have responded in a more 'joined up' and timely manner."
The HPA and the Public Health Ministry, which he lauded for being sincere and open, were working on a more substantial collaboration "so we can learn from them as much as we hope they can learn from us".
To facilitate this collaboration, an HPA senior staff member will be sent to work with the Thai ministry with a view to holding a joint workshop later this year.
