IBARAKI, JAPAN - A central government commission has ordered the Ibaraki prefectural government to pay 28.26 million yen in compensation to 37 residents of Kamisu in the prefecture for health problems they suffered from arsenic-contaminated well water.
It is the first time the Internal Affairs and Communications Ministry's Environmental Dispute Coordination Commission recognized governmental responsibility in connection with residents' health problems.
The group of residents filed for arbitration with the commission to clarify the responsibility of the central and prefectural governments in 2006.
The case centered on who was responsible for the contamination and the connection between the well contamination and the residents' health problems.
In announcing its decision on Friday, the commission pointed out the prefectural government failed to inform residents it had detected high levels of an arsenic compound--45 times the acceptable level--in well water in 1999. The prefecture also failed to conduct follow-up research, it said.
The commission ordered the prefecture to pay 3 million yen each to five residents aged 10 to 18 who suffered developmental disorders. As for eight residents who complained about dizziness and other symptoms, the commission ordered the prefecture to pay 420,000 yen to 1.8 million yen. The remaining 24 residents were to be paid 50,000 yen to 200,000 yen in compensation, on the grounds that their right to a peaceful life was infringed upon.
In March 2003, high levels of organic arsenic compounds were detected in groundwater taken from wells in the Kizaki district of Kamisu. People in the area had often complained of health problems.
The arsenic compound detected was a type nonexistent in nature and similar in composition to one developed by the Imperial Japanese Army during World War II.
In January 2005, pieces of concrete containing organic arsenic were found near the wells, leading the central government to conclude that they were the source of residents' health problems.
The commission determined that the water pollution was caused by the concrete pieces, which were abandoned by an unknown party. Though it admitted that arsenic was produced by the Imperial Japanese Army as a toxic gas compound, it did not recognize the central government's responsibility of overseeing disposal of poisonous compounds by a third party.
