Prince Tomohito of Mikasa passed away at a Tokyo hospital Wednesday after a long battle against cancer, which involved 16 operations. He was 66.
The prince, a cousin of the Emperor and the eldest son of Prince Mikasa, 96, was sixth in line to the Chrysanthemum Throne.
According to the Imperial Household Agency, the prince died at 3:35 p.m. from multiple organ failure at Kyoundo Hospital in Chiyoda Ward, Tokyo, after his condition suddenly worsened.
Nicknamed the "Bearded Prince," he was known for making remarks and writing books that went beyond the norm of Imperial family members.
Repeated operations for cancer recently caused the prince to lose his vocal functions, so he used an electronic larynx to speak.
He remained in hospital since his last operation on March 2.
Funeral services are planned at Toshimagaoka Imperial Graveyard.
According to the agency, doctors found a tumor around his lower right chin in December. In January, the prince had surgery to remove cancerous tissues around the chin, including lymph nodes on both sides of his neck, and to transplant tissue from his abdomen to the operated area. He had trouble swallowing and underwent surgery again on March 2.
The prince was first diagnosed with cancer in January 1991. He had an operation to remove three-quarters of his esophagus. In June 1992, doctors found cancerous lesions in the remaining part of his esophagus, and it was later removed.
Since then, the prince was repeatedly operated on after cancerous tissue was found in his tongue and throat.
In June 2007, he revealed he was undergoing treatment for alcohol dependency at the Hospital of the Imperial Household.
In 2008, a new cancer lesion was detected on the prince's throat during a medical checkup. He underwent surgery in March that year and was discharged from hospital in April. However, he was soon rehospitalized due to pneumonia, which was caused by food entering his trachea.
In May the same year, the prince lost his vocal functions after having surgery to close the entrance of his larynx to prevent him suffering from pneumonia.
Prince Tomohito trained himself to use an electronic larynx and was able to resume his official duties in September 2008.
He engaged in various activities including advocating welfare for disabled people and promoting sports.
He served as the patron of Yuai Jujikai, a social welfare corporation for disabled people, and the Ski Instructors Association of Japan. He was the honorary patron of the Japan-British Society and the Japan Rugby Football Union.
Prince Tomohito was known for his unconventional words and behavior. In April 1982, he asked the Imperial Household Agency to allow him to become a commoner, causing a national sensation.
Prince Tomohito was born to Prince Mikasa and Princess Yuriko, now 89, on Jan. 5, 1946. After graduating from Gakushuin University's Faculty of Law, he studied at Oxford University.
He married Princess Nobuko, 57, daughter of former Aso Cement Chairman Takakichi Aso and sister of former Prime Minister Taro Aso in November 1980. He is the father of Princesses Akiko, 30, and Yoko, 28. His brothers are Prince Katsura, 64, and Prince Takamado, who died in November 2002. His older sister is Yasuko Konoe and his younger sister is Masako Sen.
With the death of Prince Tomohito, the number of members in the Imperial family is 22, including the Emperor. Prince Katsura will become sixth in line to the throne, replacing Prince Tomohito.
