SEOUL - A scandal in South Korea about secret government surveillance has sparked a blame game between the ruling conservatives and the opposition before next week's closely-fought election.
The scandal involves alleged spying by the prime minister's office on vocal critics of the government.
The office is responsible for investigating alleged ethical breaches by civil servants but critics say it also snooped on civic activists, politicians and celebrities.
The issue hit the headlines last week with a media report that there had been some 2,600 cases of illegal surveillance of non-civil servants.
The centre-left opposition Democratic United Party (DUP) took the administration and the ruling New Frontier Party (NFP) to task. Recent polls show them neck-and-neck in the run-up to the April 11 general election.
On Sunday the presidential Blue House sought to turn the tables, saying most of the cases dated back to the previous left-leaning government of President Roh Moo-Hyun.
"More than 80 per cent of files were from the previous administration," a presidential spokesman said, adding recent spying activities only targeted public servants suspected of corruption and other misconduct.
Any such surveillance is especially sensitive in South Korea, which only achieved democracy in 1987 after four decades of army-backed authoritarian rule.
The spokesman accused senior DUP members of leading spying on ordinary citizens while they were top officials under the former administration.
"I strongly urge them to stop distorting facts to launch political attacks as the election looms," he said.
Opposition leaders immediately hit back, calling for President Lee Myung-Bak and the ruling party to "come clean" before the election.
Moon Jae-In, the DUP's likely presidential candidate in December polls and a senior presidential aide under the former administration, Sunday called the accusation by the presidential spokesman "groundless".
Han Myeong-Sook, the DUP leader and a prime minister under the former administration, also accused the presidential office of a "vulgar and barbaric" attempt to shift the blame.
"The April 11 election is a heaven-sent opportunity to revive democracy in this country," she said.
The controversy first came to light in 2010 but has recently become a major political issue following claims that senior presidential aides under the current administration played a key role in arranging spying.
The president's office vowed Sunday to "take responsibility" if found culpable in an ongoing probe by prosecutors.
The NFP, formerly known as the Grand National Party, is striving to preserve its parliamentary majority in the April 11 poll, a prelude to what it hopes will be a second successive presidential victory.
Some 246 legislators will be directly elected and another 54 through proportional representation.
The poll is set to focus on economic issues such as a widening income gap and high youth unemployment. It is also seen as an opportunity for voters to pass judgement on President Lee's term in office.
Presidents serve a single five-year term and parliaments are elected for four years. This will be the first time for two decades that the votes fall in the same year.
