WASHINGTON - Foreign Minister Koichiro Gemba and his US counterpart, Hillary Clinton, agreed Tuesday that the UN Security Council "should take appropriate actions" if North Korea carries out its planned ballistic missile launch.
"We've agreed that the international community, including the Security Council, should take appropriate actions if North Korea goes ahead with the planned missile launch," Gemba said during a joint press conference with Clinton following their hourlong talks in the US capital.
Gemba is visiting the United States to attend a Group of Eight foreign ministers meeting to be held Wednesday and Thursday to discuss the planned launch, which is expected to take place between Thursday and Monday.
"In the upcoming G-8 meeting, it is necessary for us to issue a very strong message," the foreign minister said. He suggested that the meeting should immediately respond, such as through the issuing of an emergency statement of condemnation, if North Korea goes ahead with what it calls a satellite launch.
Clinton echoed his remark, saying North Korea "should not conduct another launch that would be a direct threat to regional security."
The secretary of state also suggested that the United States and its allies would pursue "appropriate action" if North Korea goes ahead with its plan, including seeking a new resolution at the Security Council.
"Let me make absolutely clear that any launch by North Korea would be a serious, clear violation of their obligations under already existing UN Security Council resolutions 1718 and 1874," Clinton said.
"We are consulting closely in capitals and at the United Nations in New York, and we will be pursuing appropriate action."
During their talks, the two ministers also discussed the realignment of the US forces in Japan, agreeing that Tokyo and Washington would make efforts to reach an agreement that would help relieve Okinawa Prefecture's burden of hosting so many troops at the earliest possible time while maintaining an appropriate deterrence.
With an eye on a scheduled visit to the United States by Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda during the Golden Week holiday period from late April to early May, Gemba and Clinton also covered such issues as the Trans-Pacific Partnership free trade negotiations and bilateral cooperation in the field of energy, including possible export of US shale gas to Japan.
"We regard our prime minister's visit to the United States as a very important event because it sets the direction of the Japan-US alliance for years to come," Gemba said.
