TEKNAF - Bangladesh guards pushed back three more boats of Rohingya Muslims fleeing violence in Myanmar, officials said Tuesday, as the UN refugee agency called for the border to be opened.
Patrol teams intercepted the boats of Rohingya people trying to enter Bangladesh on Monday night across the Naf river, Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) Major Shafiqur Rahman said.
"The three boats were carrying 103 Rohingya, including 81 women and children," he told AFP.
The boats were detained and later returned to Myanmar territory, he said, adding the BGB had turned away a total of 11 boats carrying more than 400 Rohingya since Monday.
"On these boats are women and children, and injured people," UNHCR representative Craig Sanders told AFP in Dhaka.
"We are appealing to the Bangladesh government to keep open its border and provide emergency and other humanitarian assistance."
Dozens of people have been killed in a surge in sectarian violence in Myanmar, a senior Myanmar government official said Tuesday.
A state of emergency has been declared for Rakhine state, which borders Bangladesh, posing a major test for the reformist government which took power last year.
"It's a major setback for the Rohingya refugees and the people of Myanmar and Bangladesh," Sanders said. "Our first task is to ask Bangladesh to provide them safe passage, humanitarian and medical needs."
But Bangladesh has stepped up security along its 200-kilometre border with Myanmar to prevent an influx of Rohingya refugees.
"It is not in our interest that new refugees come from Myanmar," Foreign Minister Dipu Moni told reporters.
"The entry of refugees from Myanmar has impacted in Bangladesh's social, environmental and law and order situation."
Bangladeshi officials estimate that a total of 300,000 Rohingya people live in the country, with only about a tenth of them in two official refugee camps in the southern district of Cox's Bazaar.
Rohingya are a stateless people described by the United Nations as one of the world's most persecuted minorities.
