BEIJING - The verdict in the trial of rights activists Ni Yulan and her husband will be announced on Tuesday, a year after the couple were detained amid growing unrest in China, their daughter said Saturday.
Ni and Dong Jiqin, who have long helped victims of government-backed land grabs, were detained in April last year as authorities rounded up scores of activists amid online calls for protests similar to those in the Arab world.
In a brief December trial they were charged with "picking quarrels, provoking trouble and willfully destroying private and public property" - charges lawyers and supporters say were trumped up to silence them.
"Our lawyer told me the verdict will be read by the Beijing Western District court on Tuesday morning," daughter Dong Xuan, 27, told AFP.
"They are not guilty and should be released, but I fear that my mother will be sentenced to at least three years as a repeat offender. I am hoping that my father will be released for time served."
The couple's lawyer last visited them in February, she said. Ni, 51, remains ill and is suffering from fever, a swollen neck and has trouble speaking.
Ni spent much of the trial lying on a bed in the courtroom due to her poor health and needed a respirator to breathe.
The couple have provided legal assistance to numerous families around China who have been forcibly evicted from their homes in government-backed land requisitions, a major cause of unrest in China.
Their battle to oppose the land grabs began in 2001 after their courtyard home in central Beijing was requisitioned and marked for demolition.
Trained as a lawyer, Ni was sentenced to a year in jail in 2002 for "obstructing official business," and for two years in 2008 for "harming public property" - charges brought against her as she tried to protect her home.
She was also disbarred in 2002.
In January, Dong Xuan was barred by police from leaving China to collect a 100,000-euro (131,000) human rights award for her mother in the Netherlands. She says she remains under police surveillance.
Ni's case has been championed by numerous Western governments, including the United States and the European Union, which sent representatives to meet with her during her brief period of freedom in 2010.
