THAILAND - Public sentiment is that the political landscape will remain unchanged despite the expiry of the political ban on 111 Thai Rak Thai executives, according to the results of a survey by Suan Dusit Poll released yesterday.
About one in three people welcomed the 111 returning to politics, saying they could make positive contributions to the country.
They voiced optimism that the 111 would be given a second chance to work in the public service.
They were split, however, on whether the 111 should join the Cabinet.
One in three said the presence of the 111 could strengthen the government's work.
But about the same number of people said they opposed the idea for two reasons - that the 111 could fuel the political divide and that it was time for young blood to assume responsibility.
The nation-wide survey involved 2,952 respondents in 15 selected provinces.
In a separate survey, the Abac Poll said Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra enjoyed the highest popularity rating for the past nine months, followed by three deputy prime ministers, Chalerm Yoobamrung, Chumpol Silapa-archa and Yuthasak Sasiprapha.
The other popular Cabinet members were Justice Minister Pracha Promnok, Deputy Prime Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong, Deputy Prime Minister Yongyuth Wichaidit and Defence Minister Sukampol Suwannathat.
Commerce Minister Boonsong Teriyaphirom and his two deputies were among the 10 least-known Cabinet members.
Five least-known Cabinet members were Deputy Transport Minister Chadchart Sittpunt, Deputy Finance Minister Tanusak Lekuthai, Energy Minister Arak Chonlatanon, Deputy Commerce Minister Poom Sarapol and PM's Office Minister Nivatthamrong Boonsongpaisal.
Almost one in two people said they wanted Pheu Thai MP Jatuporn Promphan in the Cabinet line-up. About three in five people said the Cabinet should be reshuffled to boost performance.
Pheu Thai spokesman Prompong Nopparit said Jatuporn was qualified for a ministerial appointment, reacting to speculation about replacing Deputy Interior Minister Choochart Hansawas.
Commenting on the Cabinet line-up, Information and Communications Technology Minister Anudith Nakornthap said he anticipated no ripple effects from the 111 joining the government.
He said he believed the government would become stronger following the reshuffle.
He also said he had no idea whether Khunying Sudarat Keyuraphan, one of the 111, would accept a ministerial appointment.
