Former Premier Su Tseng-chang defeated all other candidates yesterday with wide margins in a five-way contest to win the chairmanship of the opposition Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) as expected. He captured 50.47 per cent of the valid votes cast.
The victory of Su, who took 55,894 votes, significantly boosted his chances of becoming the DPP's presidential candidate in the 2016 election.
The number of votes received by Su was more than twice as many as those cast for former Tainan Magistrate Su Huan-chih, who finished second with 23,281 ballots.
Voter turnout was recorded at 68.62 per cent of the 163,808 DPP members eligible to vote throughout Taiwan.
President Ma Ying-jeou, who concurrently serves as chairman of the ruling Kuomintang, sent his congratulations to Su along with flowers immediately after learning of his victory.
Former Vice Premier Wu Rong-i received 16,315 votes in the chairmanship election, followed by former DPP Legislator Chai Trong-rong with 12,497.
Former DPP Chairman Hsu Hsin-liang, who had vowed "to block Su and help (former DPP Chairwoman) Tsai," managed to garner just 2,763 ballots, ending in last place.
Hsu has been pressuring Su to vow not to seek the presidential candidacy in the next election.
But Su has ignored the request. Hsu has spoken in support of Tsai staging a comeback in the 2016 poll after she lost the 2012 race to President Ma in January.
After losing the DPP chairmanship race, Hsu said he planned to continue his hunger strike in front of the Legislative Yuan to protest the government's policies concerning U.S. beef imports and increases in energy prices.
He also demanded that former President Chen Shui-bian be released from prison, where he is serving a sentence for corruption.
In spite of his victory, Su will face tough challenges in bridging differences among various factions within the DPP and building party solidarity.
Su was singled out as the man to beat by all other four candidates in the election.
His past two failed attempts to seek presidential nominations also caused deep divisions with former Premier Frank Hsieh and Tsai.
The director's seat of the DPP's New Taipei City chapter was surprisingly captured by Lo Chih-cheng - who was backed by Tsai - by winning over the candidate supported by Su by a wide margin.
Su stressed the need for the DPP to band together and bury the differences among factions.
He said the high turnout in the election shows the strong passion of DPP members to support the party, which he described as the opposition party's biggest asset.
Su, 65, is a lawyer by profession. He previously served briefly as party chairman in 2005, but resigned following the DPP's losses in local elections in December of that year.
The political veteran has also served as Pingtung magistrate (1989-1993), Taipei magistrate (1997-2004), and as presidential secretary-general (2004-2005) to former President Chen.
His most recent government position was that of premier, a post he held January 2006 to May 2007.
