YANGON - President Lee Myung-Bak headed to Myanmar Monday on the first visit by a South Korean leader since a North Korean assassination attempt in Yangon almost three decades ago.
Lee was due in the capital Naypyidaw for a meeting and dinner with President Thein Sein, his office said, on a two-day trip aimed at promoting economic ties and encouraging the country's recent political reforms.
On Tuesday he is expected to travel to Yangon to visit the Martyrs' Mausoleum, where former president Chun Doo-Hwan narrowly escaped an attempt on his life by Pyongyang agents in 1983.
Chun was saved from the bomb blast because he was delayed in traffic on his way to lay a wreath to commemorate Myanmar's independence hero Aung San, the father of pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi.
The bomb killed 17 South Koreans, including three cabinet ministers, and four Myanmar nationals.
Myanmar's past military links to North Korea have come in for international criticism, but the Southeast Asian nation has maintained that it is too poor to acquire nuclear weapons and that it has always abided by UN resolutions.
Security was tight ahead of Lee's visit, which is also expected to include a meeting with Suu Kyi, who was last month elected to parliament for the first time as part of budding political reforms.
The South Koreans "are very concerned for the security here because of their past experience in our country," a Myanmar government official who did not want to be named told AFP.
Lee's office said in a statement that the South Korean leader would discuss expanding cooperation in energy and resources development and other areas during his meeting with former general Thein Sein.
It said the visit was "expected to contribute to attempts by the international community to support Myanmar's recent efforts to open up and reform".
South Korean companies were actively pursuing huge business deals in Myanmar years before the political liberalisation, which led to the end last year of decades of outright military rule.
In December 2008 Myanmar signed a deal with South Korean companies Daewoo International and the Korea Gas Corporation, as well as Indian firms, to pipe natural gas from off the western state of Rakhine to China.
The operator of South Korea's stock exchange is also competing with the Tokyo Stock Exchange to open a bourse in the country, which is generating strong interest among international investors.
