The central government will continue to throw its full weight behind the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in united efforts to roll forward the practice of "One Country, Two Systems", President Hu Jintao said on Friday.
The president arrived in Hong Kong at noon for a three-day visit to attend celebrations marking the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region's 15th anniversary and witness the inaugural ceremony of the special administrative region's fourth government.
"Hong Kong has made remarkable achievements since the reunification," Hu said in a short speech at the airport. "'One Country, Two Systems' has been well-established."
The president told the welcoming party that the visit will give him a chance to grasp Hong Kong's achievements and gather community views.
Hu was accompanied by a top-level central government delegation, which includes State Councilor Liu Yandong and several ministers.
Among those who greeted the president at the airport were outgoing Chief Executive Donald Tsang Yam-kuen and his successor Leung Chun-ying, who will be sworn in on Sunday.
Later in the afternoon, Hu met with Tsang at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Wan Chai, where the president and his entourage stayed.
Hu said that he appreciates the "fruitful efforts" Tsang and his team have made during the past seven years in fending off the onslaught of international financial crises, developing the economy and improving people's standard of living.
Tsang summed up his performance over his seven-year tenure as chief executive, saying he had delivered 169 of the 173 promises he made during his election campaign.
He said that he and his team have primarily accomplished the mission entrusted to them by Hu and the central government.
The road ahead for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region will be long and arduous due to complex external factors but the people of Hong Kong have confidence in their future thanks to the support of the central government, Tsang added.
Also in the afternoon, the president inspected a military parade of the People's Liberation Army Hong Kong Garrison at the Shek Kong barracks.
The president concluded his first-day visit by joining Tsang for a family dinner at Government House. About 80 people were present at the dinner, including incumbent and incoming major officials of the Hong Kong government.
Hu's itinerary on Saturday will include a tour of major infrastructure projects, such as the Kai Tak Cruise Terminal. Also on the cards are meetings with executive and legislative council members and community leaders.
He will be the guest of honor at an official dinner to be hosted by the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government on Saturday evening ahead of a variety of performances at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre.
The president's visit will culminate on Sunday when he will preside over the inauguration of the fourth Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government following a flag-raising ceremony at Golden Bauhinia Square in the morning.
