The government has decided to start the joint development of defense equipment with Britain, government sources said Wednesday.
It will be the first time that Japan makes an agreement for defense-related development projects with a country other than the United States.
In December, the government eased its so-called three principles on exporting arms, under which the export of weapons and related technologies is essentially banned.
Both nations are expected to agree on the joint development during a summit meeting scheduled for next Tuesday between Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda and British Prime Minister David Cameron, the sources said.
Immediate items for joint development will include defensive equipment such as chemical protection suits and mine detectors, the sources explained.
The government chose Britain because both countries are US allies, have deep relations in the security field and possess highly advanced technologies for the development of equipment, the sources said.
Through joint development programs, Japan aims to strengthen security cooperation with Britain, improve the performance of equipment and cut down on development costs.
After the Noda-Cameron summit, the Japanese and British governments will hold a meeting of defense ministers in Britain, possibly during the Golden Week holiday period in late April and early May. Both ministers will sign a memorandum concerning bilateral defense cooperation with its main pillar being the joint defense equipment development programs.
The government currently prohibits the use of jointly developed equipment for anything other than their intended purposes and the transfer of equipment to a third country unless prior consent is granted. Both governments will put a framework in place to take this and other factors into consideration after the defense ministers' meeting.
Japan's joint development of defense-related equipment is in actuality limited to the ballistic missile defense system with the United States. But because of the relaxation of the de facto export ban, it has become possible to create joint development programs with countries that have security cooperation relationships with Japan.
