DILI - As a young man Taur Matan Ruak, East Timor's next president from preliminary poll results Tuesday, had dreamed of travelling the world.
But Indonesia's 1975 invasion shattered that ambition, and Ruak spent the better part of the next two decades as a guerrilla fighter against the 24-year occupation.
Since then, the 55-year-old who went on to become the country's defence chief, has never been out of military uniform.
Ruak was 20 when Indonesia invaded the tiny half-island nation. He fled to the mountains and joined the Fretilin army Falintil, fighting against the Indonesian military across the country and rising through the ranks.
In 1979 he was captured by Indonesian soldiers, but managed to escape after only 23 days and was back in the mountains with fellow fighters.
After East Timor voted overwhelmingly for independence in a UN-organised referendum in 1999, Ruak became the commander-in-chief of Falintil, replacing Xanana Gusmao, now the prime minister and his political ally.
After formal independence in 2002, Ruak was named chief of the armed forces.
Late last year Ruak, whose name means "piercing eyes" in the local Tetum language, resigned from that post and threw in his beret for the presidency.
If preliminary results are confirmed, Ruak will lead an impoverished and oil-dependent country, replacing Nobel Peace Prize winner Jose Ramos-Horta.
The swarthy and bespectacled ex-soldier with cropped hair campaigned in military fatigues, burnishing his image of a war hero.
In a country where most people want to move on from years of conflict, Ruak controversially vowed to introduce mandatory military service if elected, as a way of creating jobs in a dirt-poor country with virtually no infrastructure.
"My big problem is how are we going to integrate our young people (in jobs)... National (military) service is one solution," he told reporters after voting Monday.
In election campaigns Ruak has focused on employment for the poor and "preparing our children for the future".
He once lamented that he had not fulfilled his dream of travelling the world as a young man.
"I dreamed of travelling the world, but instead, I have only seen the forests of Timor," author Irena Cristalis quoted him as saying in her book "East Timor: A Nation's Bitter Dawn".
Ruak has been accused by the United Nations of involvement in illegal weapons transfers in 2006, when rioting and factional fighting left the nation on the brink of civil war. But no attempts have been made to prosecute him.
Ruak was born Jose Maria Vasconcelos in the town of Osso Huna in Baucau district on October 10, 1956. He is married with three children.
