The Commerce, Education and Interior portfolios could be in line for a change should a Cabinet reshuffle - which is desirable - take place, an Abac Poll said in a survey released yesterday. One in two people questioned in the poll believed the timing was right for a reshuffle in Cabinet seats.
Any new Cabinet line-up could also include changes in Agriculture, Transport, Labour, Finance, Natural Resources and Environment, Defence and Social Development and Human Security ministries, the poll said.
The survey found the reconciliation bill was the most critical factor impacting on government stability.
Pheu Thai Party spokesman Prompong Nopparit dismissed the speculation on the Cabinet line-up, saying the government had not signalled a change.
Prompong said Democrat MP Thepthai Senpong was wrong in his prediction the Cabinet reshuffle would take place before August because the government wanted to thwart a censure motion.
In another development, Democrat Party spokesman Chavanond Intarakomalyasut said he understood why Deputy Agriculture Minister Natthawut Saikua would not step down, despite his ethics being questioned by the ombudsman.
"Natthawut will cling to his position because he has done everything, including inciting crowds to torch the country, in order to get his ministerial appointment," Chavanond said.
Commenting on the olive branch extended by former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra to the Democrats, he said the red shirts should not rush to dismiss such an offer because they had been fooled by Thaksin several times previously.
"On the day Thaksin mends fences with the opposition, the red shirts will realise the day of their extermination," he said.
Ombudsman Sriracha Charoenpanij said he was not worried about the opposition from the red shirts in regard to the ombudsman's report on Natthawut's ethics.
Sriracha said all sides were entitled to air their opinions within legal limits. The report on Natthawut was issued without any prejudice, based on his record and judicial decisions in connection with his involvement in the street protests in 2010, he said.
The report raised the ethical question of Natthawut's holding office, citing a Civil Court verdict he swayed the crowds beyond a peaceful rally, as sanctioned by the Constitution.
