HANOI - One of Vietnam's wealthiest individuals is at risk of losing her seat in parliament after failing to disclose that her husband was wanted for fraud, reports said Wednesday.
Dang Thi Hoang Yen, 53, chairwoman of the Tan Tao Group, is accused of not having disclosed details of her marriage and party status when applying to be a parliamentary candidate, reports said.
Yen, who ranked as Vietnam's 37th wealthiest individual in 2011 according to stock market holdings - and was in the top 10 from 2008 to 2010 - failed to alert authorities to the fact her husband was wanted by the police.
She also failed to declare she was a member of the communist party when she first applied to be a parliamentary candidate, the reports said.
Yen is married to Jimmy Tran, 57, a Vietnamese-American. In 2010 the Ministry of Public Security accused Tran, who now lives in the US, of "abusing trust to appropriate assets" at a private company, the reports said.
Analysts said publicity surrounding the case suggested Yen was being targeted, perhaps by parties jealous of her wealth and success.
"Vietnam's press is subject to control and only someone in authority could approve the stream of articles criticising her. This appears a political campaign," Vietnam expert Carl Thayer wrote in a briefing note emailed to AFP.
On Wednesday, the Vietnam Fatherland Front - a powerful umbrella group which controls candidate selection for the communist country's national assembly - convened an "unusual meeting" to review Yen's position.
Its members voted to ask the national assembly to remove Yen from her position, VNExpress news website reported.
Under Vietnamese law, a parliamentarian can be removed for making false declarations on their application for the post.
Yen's position in the 500-member parliament will be "re-examined" when the body meets in May for its official summer session, the official Tuoi Tre newspaper reported.
Yen told VNExpress she is "ready for dialogue to clear all suspicions and will be responsible" for her statements.
