JAPAN - The effect of North Korea's planned ballistic missile launch on Japan is being seen with the postponing of school trip plans to Okinawa Prefecture and disruptions to international flight routes.
At least five middle schools in Kagawa Prefecture and three middle schools in Okayama Prefecture have decided to postpone their school trips to the prefecture.
Kinki University's Toyooka High School in Hyogo Prefecture changed the destination of its school trip from Ishigakijima island in Okinawa Prefecture to Sapporo.
A source close to the high school said it was annoying for the school to change the destination again.
Last year, the school was forced to abandon a planned school trip to Ishigakijima, following the collision of a Chinese fishing boat with Japan Coast Guard vessels in waters near the Senkaku Islands in Okinawa Prefecture.
The Okinawa Prefectural Board of Education notified schools in the prefecture to keep students in school buildings after the launch, which is expected to take place during the period from Thursday to Monday.
An education board official said although there are manuals for crisis management, the missile launch is something that is impossible to plan for.
"How can we protect children without specific information about the launch from the national government?" the official said.
The government of Taketomi in Okinawa Prefecture, where Iriomotejima island is located, instructed all of its 21 primary and middle schools to refrain from school excursions or other outdoor activities, including physical education classes, during the five-day launch period.
In mid-April, in waters in and around the prefecture over which the missile is expected to fly, the fishing season for bluefin and other tuna species will start.
Yaeyama fisheries cooperative association chief Kameichi Uehara, 50, said the missile launch comes at an extremely inconvenient time as this is the best time of the year for fishermen.
"We've been unable to give fishermen any advice because we can't tell them as an association the best way to secure their safety," Uehara said.
North Korea said it would launch a rocket sometime between 7 a.m. and noon, which is, according to Hiromasa Shimoji, a 42-year-old yellowfin tuna fisherman in Ishigakijima, the time of the day when tuna are most likely to take the bait.
"I just hope nothing bad will happen," he said.
Another fisherman, Tokuhiko Tamashiro, 29, said while he will continue to fish because his livelihood depends on the job, he feels scared when he thinks that missile fragments may fall on him.
The area east of the Philippines, where the missile's second-stage booster is expected to fall, overlaps with international flight routes linking Japan and Southeast Asian nations.
On Monday, Japanese airlines decided to change the flight paths following instructions from Philippine air authorities to close usual routes during the launch period.
The routes of four daily Japan Airlines flights and five daily All Nippon Airways flights to Manila, Singapore and Jakarta from Narita Airport will be moved to westward by about 200 kilometers.
Because of the changes, the arrival times of the flights may be delayed by five to 20 minutes.
The airline companies are expected to observe the situation and take further measures.
