In a recent statistical analysis on Taiwan's City Consumption Power (CCP), the consumption amount in Taiwan has increased NT$60 billion (S$2.6 billion) from last year's NT$5.46 trillion, indicating a surge in urban Taiwan's consumption ability.
New Taipei City ranks first in the CCP rate, amongst the other top five cities, which include Taipei, Kaohsiung, Taichung, and Taoyuang County, the organizers said.
Conducted by Fu Jen Catholic University School of Management, "Taiwan Consumption Power Research" provides two sorts of data for analysis. One is the CCP, and the other is the Personal Consumption Patterns (PCP).
The CCP is calculated by multiplying PCP with urban population and the PCP is calculated by taking into account the urban population, gross domestic product, retail sales of social consumer goods, urban residents' disposable income per capita and non-productive expenditure.
The analysis shows that although New Taipei City may rank first in CCP, Taipei ranks first in PCP, with New Taipei City falling into fifth place. This means that Taipei still has higher income per person, the research indicated.
According to NCCU's Associate Dean of Department of Business Administration Bei Lien-ti, the reason that New Taipei City ranks higher in the CCP rate is due to the higher population.
Dean of the Graduate Institute of Business Administration from Fu Jen University Shia Ben-chang points out that lower PCP rates in contrast with higher CCP rates may indicate that most consumers come from the middle class.
The consumption product emphasizes daily supplies, which means that higher PCP rates, such as in Taipei and Hsinchu City, focus more on luxuries, says Shia.
Statistics show that among the top 50 consumption power areas in Taiwan, 26 per cent comes from Kaohsiung City alone, including Fushan, Caigong, Sinshang and Longshuei. However, the lower rankings in consumption power also come from wards from Kaohsiung, such as the Namaxia District.
This indicates an economic inequality between areas in Kaohsiung, according to the study.
