TOKYO - About 9,700 people could die and about 300,000 buildings could be destroyed or burn down in Tokyo if a magnitude-7.3 earthquake with its focus in northern Tokyo Bay directly hits the metropolitan area, according to a new prediction by the Tokyo metropolitan government.
The estimated death toll was nearly double the previous forecast made in 2006.
The new prediction is based on an analysis by a research team of the Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Ministry, which recently revised upward the predicted maximum seismic intensity from upper 6 to the highest level of 7.
The number of people who will become unable to reach home increased about 700,000 to 5.17 million.
A future quake in northern Tokyo Bay is predicted to occur at the intersection of two tectonic plates--an overriding plate on which the Tokyo metropolitan area is located and the subducting Philippine Sea Plate.
The quake is included in a list of possible devastating quakes, along with a Tama inland quake and a Tachikawa fault zone quake, both centered in western Tokyo, predicted by the government's Central Disaster Management Council.
Other major quakes predicted in the Kanto region, similar to the 1703 Genroku Earthquake and the 1923 Great Kanto Earthquake, are not included in this list because their focal areas are along the Sagami Trough.
Based on the latest casualty forecast, the metropolitan government will compile new local disaster management plans possibly by September.
An earthquake research panel of the metropolitan government's disaster management council chaired by Prof. Naoshi Hirata of the Earthquake Research Institute at the University of Tokyo, has reviewed damage forecasts since September last year in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake.
In addition to the predicted northern Tokyo Bay quake and a Tama inland quake of magnitude 7.3, the panel also analyzed possible damage by a magnitude-8.2 quake in the Kanto region, which could trigger a tsunami, and a Tachikawa fault zone quake of magnitude 7.4 that may occur on an active fault.
Among the four predicted quakes, the northern Tokyo Bay quake is predicted to cause the most damage. In the event of such a quake, the intensity of tremors would register 7 on the Japanese scale in Koto and Ota wards and some other areas, and upper 6 in about 70 per cent of Tokyo's 23 wards, according to the panel's forecast.
As quake-resistance and fire-proofing capabilities of buildings have improved year by year, the number of houses and buildings predicted to be damaged fell about 130,000 from the previous prediction to about 304,300.
In areas where wooden houses are concentrated in the 23 wards, damage may, however, be greater than in the previous prediction due to the collapse of buildings and fire.
The predicted death toll due to collapsed houses and buildings rose to 5,600, compared with 2,500 in the previous prediction, and that due to fire increased to 4,100 from 2,700.
The panel predicted most of the victims would be in areas with a high concentration of wooden houses.
In the 23 wards, the largest number of houses and buildings feared to burn down is 32,200 in Ota Ward. This is followed by 23,000 in Suginami Ward, and 22,400 in Setagaya Ward.
The previous prediction was based on an assumed quake occurring at 6 p.m. on a weekday in winter, a time when peak use of fire and rush hour coincide, with winds blowing at 21.6 kph.
Under these conditions, the previously predicted death toll was 5,600. The new prediction was calculated based on 28.8 kph winds.
The maximum predicted height of tsunami triggered by a possible Kanto quake is 2.61 meters in Shinagawa Ward. The panel predicted the waves would not rise above existing floodgates and coastal levees.
Some areas along the Arakawa and Tamagawa rivers are predicted to flood, resulting in destruction or severe damage to about 2,500 houses and buildings.
However, the new prediction estimated that deaths and other casualties can be avoided if evacuation procedures are properly followed.
