SAN PABLO, Philippines - More than 200 pitbulls rescued from a South Korean-run online dog-fighting racket in the Philippines will likely be put down as it is too costly to keep them, rescuers said Tuesday.
Twenty-five of the dogs with the worst injuries have already been put down since being rescued in a police raid on Friday, and most of the remaining 215 were likely to go the same way, animal shelter vet Wilford Almoro said.
"Some have unhealed wounds, but most are down to skin and bones and their rib cages are showing," Almoro told AFP as he assessed the health of the dogs at a shabby kennel that was seized by police.
"They appear to be suffering from dehydration and they are just lying down on the ground where they are tethered."
He estimated that physical rehabilitation for all the animals would cost 3.34 million pesos (about S$98,000) and they would also need treatment to correct their aggressive behaviour.
"Just imagine the amount of work required for their continuous upkeep... I don't know if people can raise money for that 24/7," he added.
Police raided the two-hectare (4.94-acre) farm south of Manila and arrested 12 people, including eight South Koreans accused of running illegal dog fights that were streamed live on the Internet to betting audiences.
The animals were turned over to the Philippine Animal Welfare Society, a charity that rescues and rehabilitates abused animals.
One had half its tongue ripped out while another had both its ears torn off, while most had scars from previous fights, said Almoro.
"They were constantly exposed to pain, trauma, and deep wounds. Given their condition, many of them would likely get infected if they remained here."
"Putting them up for adoption is easier said than done, because you have to make sure you are not handing them over to people who would sell them back to dog-fighting gangs," he added.
He urged the Philippine parliament to amend and toughen up the law against animal cruelty, now punishable by a maximum prison term of two years and a 6,000-peso fine.
