BEIJING - Once a rising political star known for busting gangs and reviving Maoist ideals, China's Bo Xilai has suffered a dramatic fall from grace that now sees him linked to a suspected murder.
The 62-year-old was once a leading contender to enter the top rungs of power, but in a stunning reversal of fortune he was sacked as head of Chongqing city and late Tuesday suspended from the Communist Party's powerful Politburo.
In a deepening political scandal, his wife Gu Kailai has been named a suspect in the November 2011 homicide of British businessman Neil Heywood, the official Xinhua news agency said.
Xinhua said that Gu and and her son had been on "good terms" with Heywood, but that they fell out over "economic interests."
It also announced that Bo had been suspended from the 25-member Politburo and from the wider Central Committee for "serious discipline violations."
The move effectively ended Bo's hopes of promotion to the nine-member Politburo Standing Committee, China's most powerful political body, during a 10-yearly leadership transition slated for later this year.
Bo, a one-time commerce minister, was known for his suave and open demeanour which was seen as refreshing in a country where leaders are often rigid and emotionless in public.
But his media-savvy personality coupled with his "princeling" status as the son of a hero of China's revolution irritated some fellow politicians.
"He's very open, very confident, very charismatic and that's not the way most Chinese leaders behave and that is not the way they feel comfortable with their peers behaving," said Patrick Chovanec, a professor at Tsinghua University.
Bo's revival of "red" culture in the southwestern municipality of Chongqing - including sending officials to work in the countryside and pushing workers to sing revolutionary songs - drew both accolades and concern.
He also set about fighting graft when he came to power in Chongqing, in a crackdown that saw scores of officials detained and executed, their lurid secret lives exposed.
But behind Bo's smiling demeanour lurked the tragedy of his teens during the Cultural Revolution, a decade of deadly chaos launched by Mao Zedong in which students turned on teachers and officials were purged.
His father Bo Yibo was a revolutionary who fell from grace and was imprisoned and tortured during the turbulent period. His mother was beaten to death and Bo Xilai himself spent time in a labour camp.
But when Mao died and reformist leader Deng Xiaoping took over, Bo Yibo was rehabilitated and became one of the most powerful men in China, bestowing on his son an impeccable family pedigree that long protected him.
Bo took a master's degree in journalism - an educational background that stands out in the crowd of engineers and scientists who make up China's political elite.
For nearly two decades from 1985, he was based in China's northeastern rustbelt, first as mayor of Dalian, a decaying port city which he is credited with transforming into a modern investment hub.
He then became governor of Liaoning province - where Dalian is located - and in 2004 entered the Beijing limelight as China's commerce minister, dazzling foreign counterparts with his modern, can-do attitude.
"He was a reformer and wanted to see things change," said David Zweig, a Chinese politics expert at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.
During that time, Bo hosted many foreign visitors including EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson, with whom he appeared to be on genuinely friendly terms.
Outside observers said his move to Chongqing, a metropolis of more than 30 million people, would propel him out of the limelight, but his anti-mafia and Maoist revival campaigns proved them wrong.
However, those who had praised Bo as relatively liberal soon grew disillusioned - particularly with his corruption crackdown, which many say was carried out with contempt for the law.
"It was a flip... And politicians who flip are not predictable," said Zweig.
Bo's political fate was effectively sealed when his former right-hand man, Chongqing's ex-police chief Wang Lijun, visited a US consulate in neighbouring Chengdu city in early February, reportedly asking for asylum.
Wang reportedly tried to flee after Bo attempted to quell evidence linking Gu to the death of Heywood.
