When it comes to the effects of getting older, Thais are more likely to worry about ageing skin and wrinkles than about mental deterioration, a recent survey found.
Singapore-based Brand's Brain Research Centre asked 1,800 respondents aged between 25 and 49 about their attitudes and behaviour relating to ageing and anti-ageing measures in eight Asian markets: mainland China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand.
It aimed to find out people's attitudes and perceptions towards anti-ageing measures for the brain, behaviour to combat the mental effects of ageing, and any specific concerns they have regarding ageing.
The survey showed that most respondents in those eight markets felt that the brain, heart and bones were the top three parts of the body that needed to be protected from the effects of ageing. Asked to name the three signs of getting older they were most worried about, about 45 per cent of Thai respondents answered that ageing of the skin and wrinkles were their main concern, followed by reduced physical-function capacity and deterioration of vision.
Respondents in Singapore said brain deterioration was their main worry, followed by reduced physical function and increased chance of cardiovascular disease.
The main signs of ageing are reduced physical function, ageing of skin and wrinkles, brain deterioration, loss of memory, increased chances of cardiovascular disease, slow thinking, greying of hair, loss of teeth and deterioration of vision.
Asked about signs of mental deterioration, Thais were mostly worried about poor memory, forgetfulness and slower thinking. Meanwhile, respondents in other places such as Singapore, Malaysia and Taiwan were concerned about a lack of concentration, lower levels of alertness, inability to absorb new information and poor judgement.
Asked what they felt were the most effective ways to slow the biological effects of ageing, about 84 per cent responded that they would use anti-ageing cream to protect themselves from degeneration symptoms.
This was followed by maintaining a healthy and balanced diet (83 per cent) and getting enough sleep (71 per cent). Only 49 per cent of respondents thought that taking supplements would protect them from ageing.
The survey found that about 65 per cent of Japanese respondents felt that maintaining a healthy and balanced diet was the most effective way to slow the effects of ageing.
This was followed by regular physical exercise (58 per cent), getting enough sleep (49 per cent) and minimising stress (43 per cent). Only 7 per cent of Japanese respondents believed that taking food supplements was the best approach for them.
