Red-handed: Officers of the Jakarta Environment Management Board (BPLHD DKI), the Blok M Station Transportation Agency and the Public Order Agency issue a warning to a smoking passenger aboard a bus during a raid against smokers at the Blok M station in South Jakarta on Tuesday. JP/Wendra AjistyatamaCommemorating World No-Tobacco Day, which falls on May 31, the Jakarta Environmental Management Agency (BPLHD DKI) raided Blok M bus station and Blok M Square shopping center in South Jakarta on Tuesday morning to look for active smokers.
Led by BPLHD DKI's head of law enforcement, Ridwan Panjaitan, officers from agency, Blok M Station Transportation Agency and the Public Order Agency looked for people smoking on buses and at the shopping center.
Gubernatorial Regulation No. 88/2010 on no-smoking areas stipulates that public places, health centers, education centers, places of worship, playgrounds and public transportation must be free of cigarette smoke.
At the bus station, passengers caught smoking on buses were simply warned. However, drivers caught smoking were further reprimanded by having their buses' roadworthiness test (KIR) certificate numbers put on a warning list. Later, the BPLHD DKI will send warning letters to the bus companies.
Ridwan warned that if the drivers were caught again, the Jakarta Transportation Agency would freeze the permits of the buses and ultimately revoke them if they continued violating the bylaw.
In the two-hour raid, the BPLHD DKI caught 34 drivers, conductors and passengers smoking on buses and 10 people in the shopping center.
Some bus drivers were startled and others were annoyed at being caught in the raid on the city's busiest bus station, which accommodates hundreds of buses serving around 35 routes.
Rado Fernando, 30, one of the drivers, said the raid would be ineffective. "Many people still smoke everywhere, not only on buses," said Rado, who said he smoked to overcome the stress of driving in traffic jams.
A smoker at Blok M Square who declined to be named said most vendors smoked there. "It is useless banning people from smoking inside the building if they don't provide a proper place to smoke outside," he said.
Separately, Azas Tigor Nainggolan, a lawyer representing the anti-tobacco Jakarta Residents Forum (Fakta), said the raid was only a ceremonial project of the BPLHD DKI and would not have a significant impact.
"It has been three years since the regulation was imposed in 2010 and we don't see any progress," claimed Tigor, adding that the agency was not consistent in enforcing the bylaw.
In May 2011, Fakta sued BPLHD DKI as one of three institutions violating bylaw No. 88/2010 for letting people smoke inside the Cempaka Mas International Trade Center in North Jakarta.
