SEOUL - South Korea's government was urged Friday to show support for victims of Japan's colonial role, following a landmark legal ruling that Japanese companies should compensate conscripted Korean workers.
The calls came after the Supreme Court Thursday overturned earlier rulings that nine conscripted labourers or their relatives were not entitled to damages from Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Nippon Steel for unpaid wages and suffering.
The Supreme Court sent the cases back to the high courts for retrial, sparking calls for the South Korean government to push Japan into taking responsibility for past actions.
South Korea received US$500 million (S$640 million) in grants and low-interest loans from Japan as compensation for colonial rule when they restored diplomatic ties in 1965.
However the Supreme Court ruled Thursday that the state and individuals were separate entities and the 1965 treaty did not affect individuals' rights.
JoongAng Ilbo newspaper said the administration had come in for criticism for neglecting the issue of victims of Japan's 1910-45 occupation of Korea.
"Now it's the government's turn to come on to the stage. It must show a strong will to address this issue," the newspaper said in an editorial.
"The government, henceforward, should be persistent in urging changes in Japan's attitude in the issue of forcibly conscripted workers."
Kyunghyang Sinmun daily newspaper said it was time for the South Korean and Japanese governments along with the Japanese companies in question to respond.
"They must address this issue and heal the wounds... we urge Japan to take the Supreme Court's ruling seriously."
And Hankyoreh newspaper accused the South's government of negligence.
"The government has been demonstrating an irresponsible attitude as Japan claims individuals' right to compensation disappeared due to the 1965 treaty," it said.
"Aside from civilians demanding compensation, it's the government's job to get Japan to take political and historic responsibility."
The Seoul government estimates that 780,000 Koreans were forced to work in imperial Japan, mainly during World War II. Media reports say some 25,000 of them are still alive.
Some of the nine plaintiffs had launched lawsuits in Hiroshima, Japan, in 1995 demanding compensation from Mitsubishi for injuries suffered during the 1945 atomic bombing. Others filed suits in Osaka in 1997 calling for damages from Nippon Steel.
The plaintiffs also brought the cases to South Korean courts in 2000 and 2005. The Japanese courts rejected the lawsuits in rulings between 1999 and 2007 and the South Korean appeal courts followed suit in 2009.
On Thursday the Supreme Court also rejected Japanese rulings that it was legal for Japan to mobilise and conscript Koreans because the annexation of Korea was legally achieved.
The court said this view "collides with our constitution" which regards colonial rule as forcible occupation.
