JAPAN - The approval rating of Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda's Cabinet plunged to 28 per cent from 35 per cent in March, according to a Yomiuri Shimbun survey.
Fifty-nine per cent of respondents said they did not support the Noda Cabinet, up seven percentage points from the previous survey conducted March 9-11.
In the previous survey, the approval rating showed an increase for the first time since the Cabinet was inaugurated in September.
However, in the latest survey, the approval rating again turned downward and fell below 30 per cent for the first time.
The survey, conducted Friday through Sunday by telephone, covered 1,698 households with eligible voters using a random digit dialing method, with 1,065 people, or 63 per cent, giving valid responses.
The decline in the approval rating is believed to be the result of confusion within the Democratic Party of Japan over the Cabinet's submission to the Diet of a bill to raise the consumption tax rate.
On March 30, four DPJ lawmakers close to former party leader Ichiro Ozawa tendered their resignations from top government posts to protest the Cabinet's submission of the bill.
Asked about this, 57 per cent of respondents said they did not understand their actions. Fifty-five per cent said the consumption tax rate should be raised to rebuild the nation's finances and maintain the social security system.
Asked about the bill to increase the consumption tax rate, 35 per cent approved of it, down from 40 per cent in the previous survey who said they would support such a bill.
Fifty-seven per cent opposed the bill, up from 55 per cent in the March survey who responded the same way.
Meanwhile, 74 per cent said the government should introduce a reduced tax rate for daily necessities and some other items if it raises the consumption tax rate.
Seventy-four per cent said the Liberal Democratic Party should present a counterproposal to the DPJ's consumption tax hike bill.
Meanwhile, 60 per cent of respondents said they support efforts by Osaka Ishin no Kai (Osaka restoration group) to win seats in the Diet, up two percentage points from the previous survey.
Ishin no Kai is a regional party led by Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto.
