INDONESIA - First Lady Ani Yudhoyono emerged this week as a potential candidate for the 2014 presidential election for the ruling Democratic Party.
Her name has risen in prominence within the party even after repeated statements by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ruling out any member of his immediate family - meaning his wife and two grown sons - running for the nation's top job in 2014.
The President is understandably concerned about being accused of practising nepotism if he lets his wife run.
This isn't the kind of legacy he wants to leave behind.
The Constitution was amended in 2002 to prevent any president from serving more than two consecutive terms.
The change came after Indonesia's bitter experience of authoritarianism from 1966 to 1998.
Under the Constitution then in effect, Mr Suharto was elected six times, maintaining his hold on power for more than three decades.
One of the hallmarks of the Suharto regime was nepotism.
In the wake of his departure 14 years ago, Indonesia embarked on massive political reforms, and one of the hallmarks of that transitional period was the popular acronym KKN, for Korupsi, Kolusi dan Nepotisme (corruption, collusion and nepotism), which stood for everything that was wrong with the old regime.
More than a decade later, however, KKN has not only stopped being a political buzzword, but each of its three components is creeping back into the political culture.
Today, corruption is as rampant as it was under Mr Suharto; some even say it is more widespread, as evidenced by the scores of arrests and prosecutions of top politicians, bureaucrats and police officers.
And nepotism, in politics as in business, is also accepted as a fact of life.
In fairness to Mrs Yudhoyono, she is not without political credentials.
As the daughter of the late General Sarwo Edhie Wibowo, who made his name in the 1960s by heading the military campaign to purge communists from the political scene, she comes from a well-known political family.
She also helped found the party that became the political vehicle for her husband's presidential bid in 2004 (and again in 2009).
Those close to her also say that she was behind some of President Yudhoyono's major political decisions, including his choice of economics professor Boediono as his running mate in 2009, as well as some of his Cabinet appointments.
With the election just two years away, there is no one within the party's leadership who is even half as popular or eligible.
In the absence of any more-viable candidate, senior party members believe Mrs Yudhoyono, who turns 60 this year, should run.
They have two years to prep her and convince voters, who may still harbour suspicions of nepotistic practices.
If she does decide to run, helping her case is the fact that the three leading candidates for the race - Mr Aburizal Bakrie, Ms Megawati Soekarnoputri and retired general Prabowo Subianto - all have baggage of their own.
Nepotism may be the least of worries for voters.
