The death toll from torrential rains ticked up to six yesterday, following the discovery of one casualty each in Taoyuan County and New Taipei City.
On Monday, heavy rains triggered two landslides in Nantou County and neighboring Taichung that left four dead.
Firefighters said yesterday that they recovered the bodies of a 74-year-old man surnamed You and a 17-year-old man surnamed Fu, who were swept away by floodwaters in Taoyuan County and New Taipei City, according to the United Evening News.
A weather front and southwesterly winds are expected to bring heavy rainfall again today and continued showers across the island until Saturday, according to the Central Weather Bureau (CWB).
Late yesterday the Council of Agriculture issued landslide alerts for 11 cities and counties including Nantou, Chiayi, Taichung and Kaohsiung.
Extensive flooding from the two-day onslaught of rain has triggered the mass evacuation of residents in parts of central Taiwan.
On Tuesday, the Nantou County disaster response center and military personnel evacuated around 700 residents from the low-lying Tungfu Village. Some 400 tourists and county residents have been evacuated over the past two days, according to the Nantou County Government.
Firefighters are searching for a six-member mountain climbing team that failed to make a scheduled return to Nantou's Hsinyi Township. Reports say that 15 members of two other mountain climbing teams have been recovered safely, after they went missing in mountainous areas of Taichung.
The Ministry of National Defense (MND) said Tuesday it has assisted in evacuating another 1,100 people from other worst-hit areas across Taiwan, such as New Taipei City, Taoyuan City and Greater Kaohsiung, where it has set up a relief center for disaster refugees.
More than 47,000 personnel are action-ready for evacuations, mud clearing, and other disaster relief, said MND spokesman Luo Shou-he.
Meanwhile, some 850 tourists are believed to be stranded on the outlying Green Island, after ferry trips between Taitung County and the island were canceled due to adverse conditions.
An estimated 5,000 residents are currently without electricity, while road traffic remains congested on sections of the South Cross-Island Highway.
The CWB has recorded rainfall totals exceeding 1,000 mm in 2.5 days in more than 10 locations across the island.
Weather stations in Kaohsiung, Taichung, Nantou, Chiayi and six other locations have recorded accumulation of more than 1,000 mm in two and a half days, which is rainfall comparable to that of a typhoon.
In just the first half of Tuesday, the CWB recorded rainfall exceeding 400 mm in New Taipei City's Sanxia, Tucheng and Zhonghe Districts, while rainfall at Taichung City's Heping District and Taoyuan's Bade City exceeded 360 mm.
On Tuesday morning, Taipei issued its first-ever cancellation of work and class due to rain, provoking complaints from some residents in the process.
Taipei City Mayor Hau Lung-bin announced a half-day class and work cancellation at 9 a.m. Tuesday, which was revised into immediate cancellation at 9:55 a.m.
The last-minute shift drew ire from some nine-to-fivers and parents who complained of their earlier ordeal in morning traffic.
One woman surnamed Hsu told local press that she had traveled through floodwater to deliver her child to school, and then had to double back after the last-minute cancellation.
"The government is playing a practical joke on schoolchildren's parents," said Hsu.
Local governments of Taoyuan County, Tainan City, Pingtung County, New Taipei City and Kaohsiung City also announced suspensions of school and work yesterday.
