The opposition-controlled House of Councillors adopted censure motions against Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Minister Takeshi Maeda and Defense Minister Naoki Tanaka by majority votes at its plenary session on Friday.
The censure motions against the two Cabinet ministers were submitted jointly by the main opposition Liberal Democratic Party, Your Party and the New Renaissance Party.
It is rare for censure motions to be adopted during a Diet session.
Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda intends to reject the opposition parties' calls for the dismissal of Maeda and Tanaka and keep them in their posts. However, the LDP said it will boycott Diet deliberations in principle until the two ministers resign.
The situation in the Diet has become tense ahead of deliberations in the House of Representatives on a bill to raise the consumption tax rate that Noda aims to enact during the current Diet session.
The censure motion against Maeda claims he violated the Public Offices Election Law by signing a document calling for a local association of construction companies to back a particular candidate in the Sunday mayoral election in Gero, Gifu Prefecture, before official campaigning kicked off.
With the LDP, Your Party, NRP, New Komeito, the Japanese Communist Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Sunrise Party of Japan supporting the censure motion against Maeda, 131 lawmakers voted in favor and 107 voted against it.
The censure motion against Tanaka claims he is not qualified for the post of defense minister, citing the turmoil caused by the government's response to North Korea's ballistic missile launch last week and his responses to questions in the Diet, which the motion says often stray off topic. The motion was adopted as 132 lawmakers voted for it and 107 voted against it.
Akiko Kamei, former policy chief of the People's New Party and now an independent, abstained from voting on the censure motion against Maeda while Kazuya Tamaki, a DPJ member, excused himself from the plenary session.
After the censure motions against the two ministers were adopted, the LDP lawmakers left the upper house and abstained from the session where bills submitted by the government were put to a vote.
The LDP is boycotting all Diet deliberations, except for lawmaker-initiated legislation and others that do not involve the government. However, Komeito will likely join deliberations besides those related to Maeda and Tanaka.
Unlike a no-confidence motion in the lower house, an upper house censure motion is not legally binding.
Both Maeda and Tanaka told reporters they have no intention to resign.
"I was instructed by the prime minister to fulfill my responsibility properly," Maeda said. "I'll dedicate all my strength to my duty," Tanaka said.
It is the first time censure motions have been adopted since those against former Defense Minister Yasuo Ichikawa and Kenji Yamaoka, former state minister for consumer affairs, were adopted last December.
Following the adoption of Friday's motions, the total number of Cabinet ministers who have been censured by the upper house since the DPJ came to power in 2009 has increased to six. In many cases, censure motions were submitted at the end of a Diet session.
