BEIJING - Blind Chinese legal activist Chen Guangcheng said on Saturday he had left a hospital in Beijing and was at the airport where he expected to be departing for the United States, a move that would signal the end of a diplomatic crisis between the two country.
Chen, who has been in hospital for the past three weeks since he sought refuge in the US embassy, said he believed he would be headed on a flight to the United States, but added he was still uncertain of it. The US embassy was not immediately available for comment.
Chen's escape from house arrest in northeastern China last month and subsequent refuge in the U.S. embassy caused huge embarrassment for China, and led to a serious diplomatic rift while U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was visiting Beijing.
Chen told Reuters by telephone: "I'm at the airport now. I've already left the hospital. But there are many things that are still unclear."
Chen said that his wife and two children were at the airport with him, accompanied by hospital staff.
Two police cars were stationed below the walkway to the plane Chen was expected to board, and about 10 security officials in plainclothes circulated around the airport.
Several photographers were in position at the waiting area, but passengers at the gate to Chen's flight appeared not to know that he would be on the same flight.
"Yes, I might be heading for a flight to the United States, but I haven't been told, and I haven't received our passports, so I'm not sure yet," Chen said. "We're waiting to find out what's happening."
The development came about three weeks after Chen arrived at the Chaoyang Hospital from the US embassy, where he had taken refuge after a dramatic escape from 19 months under house arrest in his home village.
Chen's confinement, his escape and the furore that ensued have made him part of China's dissident folklore: a blind prisoner outfoxing Communist Party controls in an echo of the man who stood down an army tank near Tiananmen Square in 1989.
In 2006, Chen was sentenced to more than four years in jail on charges - vehemently denied by his wife and lawyers - that he whipped up a crowd that disrupted traffic and damaged property.
Chen had led campaigns for farmers and disabled citizens and exposed forced abortions.
He was formally released in 2010 but remained under house arrest in his home village in northeastern Shandong province, which officials turned into a fortress of walls, security cameras and guards in plain clothes who kept Chen isolated.
The village of Dongshigu, where Chen's mother and other relatives remain, is still under lockdown.
The US embassy had earlier thought it had stuck a deal to allow Chen to stay in China without retribution, but that fell apart as Chen grew worried about his family's safety. He changed his mind about staying in China and asked to travel to the United States.
Human rights are a major factor in relations between China and the United States, even though Washington needs China's help on issues such as Iran, North Korea, Sudan and the fragile global economy.
Chen Guangcheng's nephew, Chen Kegui, was denied his family's choice of lawyers on Friday to defend a charge of "intentional homicide", the latest in a series of moves to deny him legal representation, and underscores the hardline stance taken against Chen Guangcheng's family.
Earlier on Saturday, Chen said the authorities' drive to "manipulate" his nephew's case would not succeed.
Blinded by an illness in his infancy, Chen, 40, grew up in China's eastern province of Shandong on classical Chinese tales of courageous heroes who fought wicked officials to help powerless ordinary people.
The stories, told to him by his father, inspired Chen to help others and to embark on his civil rights crusade, his brother Chen Guangfu once told AFP.
But his efforts at improving human rights in China mired him in a deepening abyss of abuse stemming from police beatings, round-the-clock surveillance, numerous detentions and finally jail.
After accusing authorities in Shandong's Linyi county of forcing up to 7,000 women to undergo late-term abortions or sterilisations under the "one-child" policy, Chen was sentenced to four years and three months in prison in 2006.
Officially, Chen was convicted of "wilfully damaging public property and organising a mob to disturb traffic", referring to a rally by his supporters protesting against the government's treatment of the blind lawyer.
During his trial, his lawyers, who had already suffered repeated beatings by thugs believed to be hired by local authorities, were refused entry into the courtroom.
While in prison, he was beaten by fellow inmates on at least one occasion, according to the Chinese Human Rights Defenders, a network of rights activists.
His wife, Yuan Weijing, was reportedly subjected to harassment by officials and physical violence.
After his release in September 2010, Chen and his family were held under house arrest, effectively cut off from the outside world, with dozens of security officers posted outside their home.
Activists and journalists who tried to visit him were roughed up or harassed and barred from gaining access to the village, among them Hollywood actor Christian Bale, who travelled there last December.
Chen and his wife were also severely beaten after they smuggled out a videotape of themselves documenting the conditions of their house arrest last year, the US-based ChinaAid rights group said at the time.
Chen, who has no formal legal qualifications, is what is known in China as a "barefoot", or self-taught, lawyer.
After pursuing law at a blind school during his youth, Chen armed himself with legal knowledge and began giving free legal advice to villagers for all sorts of problems, according to his brother.
He gained fame in his locality for helping people sue officials over a wide variety of injustices, with corrupt officials in government a particular target.
Although the State Family Planning Commission in 2005 publicly admitted that local officials in Linyi had carried out forced abortions and sterilisations and vowed to bring perpetrators to justice, pressure on Chen from county authorities never abated.
In 2006, he was named by US-based Time magazine as one of the world's 100 most influential people for his courage in exposing rights abuses in China.
Chen is a past recipient of the Ramon Magsaysay Award, a human rights prize awarded to deserving activists in Asia.
