BEIJING - Until recently, few in the art world had even heard of China's auction houses. Today, they are among the world's biggest by revenue, posing a serious challenge to the likes of Sotheby's and Christie's.
Though still much smaller in size than their foreign rivals, China's auction houses now account for five of the world's top 10 by revenue, according to a recent report by the France-based industry association Conseil des Ventes.
Their rise has been fuelled by wealthy Chinese collectors' vast appetite for art and antiques and aided by regulations that have locked overseas competitors out of China.
It nevertheless represents an extraordinary turnaround for an industry that has been dominated by a handful of established European brands for centuries.
"From 1776, when we were founded, to about five years ago, our main competitor was Sotheby's.
Well, today in Asia, the landscape has changed," explained Mr Francois Curiel, president of Christie's Asia.
He said: "For the first time in history, local auction houses are doing better than us in a local market."
The two biggest, Beijing Poly and China Guardian, rank only just behind Christie's and Sotheby's, having overtaken more established names such as Bonham's in just a few years.
Last year, Beijing Poly booked sales of 12.1 billion yuan (S$2.4 billion) - more than the combined revenues of Christie's and Sotheby's for the entire Asia region. China Guardian recorded revenues of 11.2 billion yuan, up from 1.8 billion yuan only three years ago.
Their success comes as China's new breed of art collectors propelled Beijing, and to a lesser extent Shanghai, to the forefront of the art scene, with Chinese works of art regularly breaking records at auction.
Last year, Qi Bachi and Zhang Daqian, two modern Chinese artists who specialise in ink paintings and calligraphy, overtook Pablo Picasso and Andy Warhol as the world's best-selling artists by auction revenue.
A Qi painting entitled Eagle Standing On Pine Tree sold for US$57.2 million (S$73 million) in May last year, the highest price fetched by any work of art at auctions last year.
"China's new rich have very few ways of spending their money. Art is one of them," said Wang Yannan, director and president of China Guardian, which was founded in 1993.
Beijing is now the world's biggest art market, with 27 per cent of global auction revenues, according to data compiled by specialist website Art Price.
But foreign auction houses are not allowed to set up shop in China, putting them at a geographical disadvantage in targeting Chinese buyers, although both Christie's and Sotheby's have booming operations in Hong Kong.
Said Mr Kevin Ching, chief executive of Sotheby's Asia: "Five years ago, China business was 4 per cent of our annual sales in Hong Kong. Now, that figure has risen to between 40 per cent and 50 per cent."
Poly and Guardian have both opened offices abroad to source Chinese art, much of which is in Western collections.
They are courting sellers in Europe and the United States by offering them greater access to mainland Chinese buyers than the foreign auction houses operating out of Hong Kong.
