Long-held gender stereotyping is discourag-ing men from seeking help when necessary, new research revealed on Thursday.
The exploratory study was conducted by the Gender Research Centre at The Chinese Uni-versity of Hong Kong and commissioned by the Equal Opportunities Commission.
The study carried out in 2011 examined gender stereotyp-ing and its impact on men. Results showed that men experience greater stress nowadays, because not only are they competing with other men, but their female partners are exceeding them in their careers.
Frederick Fung Kin-kee, convener of the com-mission's Policy and Research Committee, said while men are culturally expected to support the family financially; and hold a competitive advan-tage over women, in reality this may not be the case.
When that happens men suffer damage to their self esteem.
Deputy Convener John Tse Wing-ling revealed that some men live in pain but there is insufficient support to help them to address their problems.
Based on 340 questionnaires, most respon-dents considered employment the most impor-tant element in the construction of their self-identity.
However, men are anxious about women's increasing competitiveness for jobs and salary and hence, reducing the earning ability of males.
De-industrialization is one of the reasons for the change as men find it difficult to adjust to the demands of elementary service jobs.
Soaring property prices and rental costs have made dual-income families the norm in Hong Kong.
While taking care of household chores is not only women's responsibility, men feel the pressure of having to work long hours and feel unable to help out.
The stress is compounded when men encounter marital conflicts and feel invalidated when their opinions are dismissed by their wives.
When troubled, men tend not to seek help because society still considers women as a suppressed group and social policies favor women, through the provision of counseling and medical services.
Moreover, men are weaker than women in their social support networks, meaning they prefer not to share their problems with family and friends.
The Equal Opportunities Commission has called on the government to replace the Wom-en's Commission with a commission for gender equality to better address problems faced by men.
"Some men are having severe stress and concern over certain issues.
We have to remind policy makers that it's about time to consider some males also need certain attention.
We found that some men refuse to seek help despite the fact that they need it" said John Tse.
The government should also strengthen social services for men such as setting up sheltered centers for abused men and introduce family-friendly policies like paternity leave.
The commission is expected to finish the report and submit it to the government within a month.
