THAILAND - Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra and her family are planning to present a historic field in Ayutthaya's Thung Makham Yong to His Majesty the King because it is where he himself harvested a rice crop in 1996.
"We will present the 7-rai field to His Majesty," Yingluck said yesterday. "This historic field should be conserved."
She refused to elaborate, saying that details would be provided only after the plot was handed over to the muchbeloved monarch. The plot is said to be worth about Bt20 million (S$800,000).
Her intention to present the land plot to the King comes just two days before the monarch is set to make another historic visit to Thung Makham Yong.
Accompanied by Her Majesty the Queen and HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn, the muchrevered King will make a personal visit to Thung Makham Yong tomorrow. It will be his first trip out of Greater Bangkok in recent years. Since His Majesty was admitted to Siriraj Hospital for treatment in 2009, he has hardly left its compound.
Thung Makham Yong is in tambon Ban Mai, Mueang district, Ayutthaya province. The area is of much significance not only because His Majesty visited it in 1996 but because it is here that Queen Suriyothai of the Ayutthaya Period fought bravely against an invading army and sacrificed her life defending the Kingdom.
His Majesty has planned the visit to Makham Yong because he wishes to supervise one of his royally initiated projects there.
Their majesties the King and Queen and other members of the Royal Family are scheduled to leave Siriraj Hospital at 4.30pm, and are expected to arrive in Ayutthaya at around 5.20pm tomorrow.
Many agencies have planned grand performances for the royal members. The shows will include an elephant parade, a procession of boats, and more.
Locals in Ayutthaya are eagerly awaiting the King's visit.
Sommai Sakthanawat, 55, said he and all family members would close their food shop for a glimpse of His Majesty. "We are so glad that he is coming to our home town," he said. "We want to welcome him and chant 'Long Live the King'."
Somnuk Rattanapin, 78, said she planned to wait for His Majesty from the morning. His upcoming visit has brought her much delight.
"I have always wanted to see him again. I saw him once when I was a village scout," she said.
Lek Sripisut, a 65yearold dessert vendor, said she was glad because the King's visit meant his health was improving.
"When he's ill, I am sad," she said.
Pree Chuankamon, 67, said he loved the King a lot and always followed news about him.
Thiraporn Lawansiri, 27, said her whole family was excited about His Majesty's upcoming visit.
"We are waiting for the day we can welcome him and express our wishes for his good health and a long and happy life," she said.
