THAILAND - Apart from ongoing heavy flooding in the South, Phrae province in the North yesterday faced a flash flood, with more than 400 households based in Long district affected. The sudden inundation also submerged a long railway section in tambon Ban Pin, prompting a temporary halt to longdistance train service including on the Chiang MaiBangkok route. Repair works are underway and were expected to be completed by last night.
In neighbouring Sukhothai, the situation was still under control after a number of measures were adopted, including digging a large reservoir, dredging many canals and building a number of dams and small gates, said provincial authorities. Last year, the province saw all nine districts flooded, with 18 victims drowning.
In the South, Ranong, Chumphon, Surat Thani and Krabi provinces have been hit by floods, with more than 23,827 households affected, said an update to the official flood damage report yesterday.
A flood damage estimate in Ranong alone reached Bt200 million, said provincial governor Pheerasak Hinmuangkao, who added that more than 23,000 people in more than 4,900 households had been affected. The floods have destroyed or damaged 88 roads, 27 bridges and 70 roadside drains. A total of 693 fishing trawlers were damaged and 2,219 farmers affected.
A crack one metre wide, two metres deep and 100 metres long developed on a hill located in La Un district after days of heavy rain, causing fear to local residents. Residents from five nearby homes have been evacuated. Those living on foothills or sloped areas in Ranong have been urged to use caution over possible landslides.
The total volume of large dams across the country has reached 53 per cent of their 31 billioncubicmetre capacity, said the Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Department's update yesterday.
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra called a meeting of officials responsible for flood prevention projects at her Bangkok home yesterday, to check on progress of the works for her inspection trips across the country, from today to Thursday (Jun 1114). She has another meeting today with a national board on flood and water management, before heading out of Bangkok.
