As cultural signposts, cocktails are flavoured with both accuracy and staying power.
Consider, for example, that it was 77 years ago that the classic Bloody Mary was created by Fernand Petiot, a bartender at the King Cole Bar at the St Regis, New York.
The vodka and tomato juice concoction served as a diplomatic compromise - it was just a year after the repeal of the Prohibition Act that banned the sale and consumption of alcohol in the United Sates.
Petiot presumably thought that his creation, then known as the Red Snapper, would not ruffle the feathers of certain segments of abstaining puritanical American society of the time.
These are the thoughts that go through my mind as I pound a child-sized palm of fiery small chillies, a glob of wasabi, a pinch of black pepper, and liberal squeezes of lime juice in a silver cocktail tumbler.
I'm at the St Regis Bar in Bangkok, preparing for what is known as the Siam Mary, the hotel's nod to the American classic which is very much the cornerstone of the hotel's heritage.
In front of me is Khun Suwincha, the bartender who's giving me pointers on how to make the classic drink, Thai-style.
"Pound the ingredients a bit harder and more evenly," she tells me.
By now, I'm half-convinced that I am preparing a spicy tom yam puree as opposed to the base for a legendary cocktail. A
fter several minutes of moulding the disparate ingredients together in the silver tumbler, it's time to add vodka and tomato juice.
This is followed by the delicate art of straining the liquid carefully so that bits of sediment do not fall into the tankard in which the drink is served.
Next, comes the garnishing - an elaborate garden-variety trinity of lime wedge, lemongrass stalk and basil stems - for the final touches to the drink.
The idea for my cocktail-making adventure arose earlier that afternoon, over lunch, with the hotel's director of marketing and communications Holger Jakobs at Viu, one of the establishment's restaurants.
The topic of Sunday brunch, a popular event at most of Bangkok's top hotels, comes up.
Jakobs tells me that at Viu on Sundays, the hotel's signature Siam Mary is served along with other selected cocktails instead of the usual champagnes and wines.
"It gives us a point of reference, one that lends itself to the St Regis tradition," says Jakobs as we sat at a table overlooking the green expanse of The Royal Bangkok Sports Club, known in Thai as Raj Kreetha Samosorn Krungdheb.
Below, at the horse-racing track that hugged the golfing greens, tiny pockets of players can be seen going through their paces in the blazing sun.
Anyway, my room - thoughtfully appointed with white bed linen with borders the colour of lemon custard - can best be described as classically modern.
It shares a similar view of the race track/golf course, the BTS skytrain station and the swimming pool.
For travellers, one of the main draws of choosing the St Regis, Bangkok would be its proximity to the Rajadamri BTS station, linked by a private passageway.
Guests can easily hop on a skytrain, thus saving time and avoiding Bangkok's infamous traffic.
The hotel's swimming pool and its spa, the first Elemis stand-alone wellness retreat in Thailand with its relaxation pods made from wicker, also provide adequate distractions for those preferring to stay within the hotel's luxurious confines.
Adding to this is the butler service, which is available to all hotel guests in the 227-room property.
Khun Pim, the butler assigned to my floor, brings me endless cups of coffee and cookies, though my request for aspirin is not granted because the butlers, apparently, are not authorised to dispense medication.
The reason for my need for analgesics can be found behind the bar at Zuma, located on the ground floor of the hotel.
At the bar the night before, I'd challenged one of the bartenders, a dynamic-looking fellow, to create the ultimate passionfruit martini.
It was a test that he responded to with a smile and a flurry of activity involving a cocktail shaker.
A short while later, he produced a glass, filled with bright orange-tinged liquid, resembling, quite deceptively, juice containing soft and sour-tasting black passionfruit seeds.
Clearly, the guy takes his job seriously.
Soon after my first heady glass, it was time to call it a night.
I decided that Bangkok's buzzing night scene could wait till my next trip, as I made my way up to the room, thinking that, for the next few months at least, it would be wise, perhaps, to give cocktails a wide berth - even if it is in the name of work.
