BRUNEI - Nurses were urged to review current nursing practices and use new methods to deliver better quality service, said the Minister of Health at an academic forum held to celebrate International Nursing Day, which took place at BRIDEX in Jerudong, yesterday.
Speaking at the forum, Yang Berhormat Pehin Orang Kaya Johan Pahlawan Dato Seri Setia Hj Adanan Begawan Pehin Siraja Khatib Dato Seri Setia Hj Mohd Yusof, called on nurses to acquire a deeper understanding of Evidence-Based Practices (EEP).
The minister was echoing this year's theme of "Closing The Gap: From Evidence to Action" for International Nursing Day.
He elaborated that, in light of the theme, EEP leads to the continuous review of nursing practices as well as the search for new and improved methods that are more effective, efficient and safe. In turn, EEP enhances the quality of nursing services for patients and the general public.
YB Pehin Dato Hj Adanan stated that EEP also results in faster healing of certain health diseases; lessens the usage of medicine, namely antibiotics; and prevents the relapse of health diseases.
"At the same time, this will contribute towards an improved quality of life and well-being of the individual as well as society," he remarked, adding that treatment will also be cost-effective in the long-run following the adoption of EEP. He also reminded nurses on the importance of implementing professional guidelines, such as the Code of Ethics for Registered Nurses and Midwives.
"In addition to adopting the characteristics of integrity, strong teamwork and discipline coupled with patience in carrying out duties, I wish to remind nurses not to ignore the primary bases, which should be absorbed and internalised," he commented.
The nurses were also urged by YB Pehin Dato Hj Adanan to contribute to the field of nursing through research and innovation. "In an environment where nurses around the world are beginning to come forward in creating new methods and innovative ways to improve the quality of service, nurses in this country should follow suit and not be left behind," he said.
In his speech, the minister also made a suggestion to the Nursing Service Department through the Unit of Continuing Education in Nursing. According to YB Pehin Dato Hj Adanan, the Nursing Serivce Department needs to take the initiative towards conducting courses or programmes that are relevant and more innovative in line with recent developments, as well as take into account the current challenges in the field of nursing. The one-day forum yesterday saw the participation of invited speakers and panelists Associate Professor Premarani Kanusamy and Professor Faustino Jerome G Babate.
Associate Professor Kanusamy is the director of the Nursing Institute of Mental Health in Singapore, while Professor Babate is the national president of the Beta Nu Delta Nursing Society based in the Philippines.
Also in attendance at the forum was Dato Paduka Hj Abd Salam Abd Momin, Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Health, alongside other senior officals.
