CHONGQING/BEIJING -- The raucous diners in a hilltop restaurant in southwest China ignored a waiter's request to quieten down after a complaint from a petite woman at a nearby table.
The woman made a phone call. Minutes later, a man stormed into the hotel restaurant, brandished his pistol and silenced the table of stunned drinkers who instantly recognized him.
He was Wang Lijun, police chief of Chongqing and an ally of the city's ambitious Communist Party boss, Bo Xilai. The woman was Bo's wife, Gu Kailai, now a suspect in the murder of a British businessman, a crime that has upset China's carefully managed leadership transition.
The incident unfolded in the same hotel in Chongqing where investigators believe the businessman, Neil Heywood, was poisoned in November.
Wang's actions fitted a pattern of wild and flamboyant behavior as recounted by those who know him and whose final, characteristically dramatic act blew the scandal into the open.
On Feb. 6, Wang fled to a US consulate in an apparent asylum attempt after he confronted Bo, sources say, with evidence implicating Gu in the death of Heywood, once a friend of the Bo family.
Wang spent about 24 hours inside the consulate before being collected by Chinese central government authorities. He could now face treason charges.
The rupture in his relations with Bo hastened the end of the career of a police officer whose methods in Chongqing, China's biggest municipality, were decried by critics as brutal.
Wang was also eccentric: sources said he sometimes did his own post mortems, boasted of being an FBI agent under an exchange program and of being kidnapped by the Italian mafia.
Gu had been dining with Wang's wife at the time of the restaurant incident, which ended unhappily for the noisy table of drinkers who turned out to be off-duty police officers.
"Not realizing who she and Wang Lijun's wife were, the rowdy table ignored her. So Gu Kailai called Wang Lijun who drove up to the hotel himself and drew his gun on the rowdy table and told them that they hadn't realized who they were dealing with," said a source close to Chongqing officials.
"It was only then that Wang Lijun realized the rowdy drinkers were senior police from the Nan'an district (of Chongqing)," said the source in an account backed by a second source who cited police descriptions of the incident.
Heads rolled. The two sources said officers at the restaurant table were removed from their posts.
The fracas happened long before Heywood's death. The restaurant is at the Nanshan Lijing Holiday Hotel where Heywood's body was found on Nov. 15. Police believe he was poisoned after he threatened to expose a plan by Gu to move money abroad, Reuters has previously reported.
Gu and Wang are in custody and Bo has not been seen in public since March, when he was dismissed as boss of Chongqing. Last week, Bo was stripped of his seat on the Politburo, a major decision-making body under the more powerful Standing Committee.
Before his fall, Bo, 62, was seen as a contender for a post on the committee, China's top leadership body, to be decided this year.
With Bo and Wang out of power, sources close to officials in Chongqing and Beijing are providing details about the man who served as Bo's right-hand man in a widely publicized drive to sweep the city streets of triad gangs. They declined to be identified owing to the sensitivities of the scandal.
State media for years hailed the tens of thousands of arrests, the breakup of gangs and the exposure of corrupt police and officials, a campaign that helped build Bo's popular support.
Even by the standards of Chinese police, Wang was known as an aggressive officer. He built his reputation in the northeast province of Liaoning, where Bo was governor in the early 2000s.
Wang, 52, is an ethnic Mongolian. His father was a railway worker and his mother a textile worker. He boxed as a teen, served in the People's Liberation Army for three years and worked as a forestry official before becoming a policeman in 1984.
His crime crackdown in the northeast town of Tieling won him national acclaim. Zhou Lijun, a screenwriter, spent 10 days with Wang in Tieling in 1996 while working on a screenplay for a TV series about his exploits called "Iron Blooded Police Spirits."
According to Zhou's account in a Chinese newspaper, Wang had a flair for the dramatic. He would drive to crime scenes in a Mitsubishi jeep modified to carry a double rack of lights on its roof so the locals would know "Chief Wang" was on the case.
He would leap atop the car, draw his gun and fire shots in the air after arriving on the scene. On a night raid of hair salons thought to be fronts for prostitution, Wang rushed into one and threw a young man with dyed yellow hair to the ground.
After a police search for evidence yielded nothing, he told them to take the youth to the police station, saying, "A man with hair like that can't be any good."
