The Japan-US Security Consultative Committee--made up of the foreign and defense ministers of the two countries--announced on Friday an agreement that will see about 9,000 US marines relocated from Okinawa Prefecture to locations overseas.
The committee, also known as the two-plus-two, released a joint statement, which is equivalent to an interim report on their review of the realignment plan for US forces in Japan.
The joint statement stipulated that the number of US marines to stay in Okinawa Prefecture will be "consistent with the levels envisioned in the Realignment Roadmap," which was agreed upon in 2006. This means about 10,000 marines will remain in the prefecture.
Concerning the relocation of the US Marine Corps' Futenma Air Station in Ginowan, Okinawa Prefecture, the statement included a sentence that can be interpreted as suggesting a site other than the Henoko district of Nago in the prefecture, in line with a wish from the US side.
In February, the two governments agreed to separate the transfer of US marines overseas and the relocation of the air station.
The government aims to make progress in the reduction of the burden on Okinawa Prefecture through the relocation of US facilities overseas and a return to Japan of the US military facilities and precincts south of Kadena Base on Okinawa's main island.
Though the joint statement did not specify where the marines will be transferred, the two governments earlier agreed that 4,000 will be transferred to Guam, 2,600 to Hawaii, 1,200 to Australia, and 800 to the US mainland.
The cost of the relocation of marines to Guam was lowered from the 10.27 billion dollars (about 832 billion yen) agreed upon in 2006 to 8.6 billion dollars (about 697 billion yen). Japan's share will be 3.1 billion dollars (about 251 billion yen).
Concerning Futenma Air Station, the announcement said the planned relocation to the Henoko district "remains the only viable solution that has been identified to date" and the two governments "confirmed their commitment to resolve the issue as soon as possible."
However, a sentence was added in the final stage of the negotiations in consideration of US lawmakers, including Carl Levin, chairman of the US Senate's Armed Services Committee, who insist that the air station be integrated into Kadena Air Base.
"The ministers resolve to continue to work toward the relocation of [Futenma] in a way that meets the criteria: operationally viable, politically feasible, financially responsible, and strategically sound," it said.
The announcement also said the return of the US military facilities will be carried out in three stages.
The announcement said the Nishi-Futenma areas of Camp Zukeran and some other facilities will be returned immediately upon completion of necessary procedures; Camp Kuwae and other facilities will be returned once replacement facilities in Okinawa Prefecture are provided; and part of Camp Zukeran and another facility will be returned when the marines are relocated overseas.
At a press conference Friday, Foreign Minister Koichiro Gemba emphasized that the Futenma Air Station should be relocated to the Henoko district.
However, Gemba indicated he is "not completely against" considering other options, such as Futenma's integration into Kadena.
