A recent ruling by the Taiwan High Court that the Tung's Taichung MetroHarbor Hospital and three doctors involved in a medical dispute should pay a compensation of up to NT$33.41 million (S$1.41 million) to the victim in a case that sent shockwaves throughout the medical field.
The Taichung branch of the Taiwan High Court recently ruled that Dr. Lee Ming-chung of the Wuchi branch of the said hospital and two assistant doctors who conducted a neurosurgical operation for a patient seven years ago at the hospital should jointly pay compensation of NT$33.41 million for their medical negligence that eventually caused the patient, named Chen Jen-chieh, to fall into vegetative state.
Chen, seriously injured in a traffic accident seven years ago, recorded a Glasgow Coma Scale of 4 when he was rushed to the hospital, only slightly higher than the level 3 used to determine the vegetative state of patients.
Accordingly, Lin Hsin-jung, chairman of the Neurosurgical Society of the Republic China, said yesterday that the ruling is far from reasonable and would make doctors hesitate to participate in critical operations, thus undermining the interests of local people in terms of medical services.
Lin said that as the patient in the case recorded a Glasgow Coma Scale of only 4 when rushed to the hospital, he faced up to a 60-per cent chance of death even after receiving aggressive medical treatment.
Accordingly, based on the top priority of rescuing patients, Dr. Lee Ming-chung had no other choice but to conduct a neurosurgical operation for the patient.
But family members of the patient accused Dr. Lee and the two assistant doctors of failing to use an ICP monitor to check the intracranial pressure of the victim after the neurosurgical operation, which in turn made it impossible to determine the victim's belated intracerebral hemorrhage in time.
This, the family said, eventually lead to the full paralysis and blindness of the victim.
Court judges cited this medical negligence to support the high-compensation ruling against the hospital and the three doctors involved in the case.
The hospital and the three doctors can appeal to the Taiwan Supreme Court against the ruling.
Ma His-yi, director general of the Neurosurgery Department at the Tri-Service General Hospital, said that there are several ways to monitor intracranial pressure, including using the ventricular drainage method, for instance.
Accordingly, it is unfair to blame Dr. Lee for failing to use the ICP monitor, not to mention the risk of using the ICP monitor and the high expense of NT$20,000 per service that must be paid by the patient instead of the Bureau of National Health Insurance.
Also yesterday, the Taiwan Healthcare Reform Foundation noted that the compensation of NT$33 million is unreasonably high and not proportional to the real loss of the victim.
A division chief of the foundation said that the government should set up a special court dedicated to handling medical disputes and that more experts should be invited to attend the court sessions as witnesses and work out a reasonable compensation range to avoid both patients and doctors from suffering in the long run.
??According to statistics compiled by the foundation, up to 70-80 per cent of medical disputes have been settled out of court, with the remaining 20-30 per cent settled by local health departments.
??On another front, the Cabinet-level Department of Health (DOH) is actively drafting a set of rules to deal with medical disputes, under which the DOH will set up a NT$4 billion fund for each year, with the DOH and local hospitals contributing NT$2 billion each.
The ceiling limit on the proposed compensation rules is set at NT$2 million.
