It is widely known that the ultimate goal of the ruling Pheu Thai Party's reconciliation drive is to bring fugitive ex-premier Thaksin Shinawatra home scot-free.
But it appears that the road to his return is not strewn with rose petals.
While Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra is trying hard to restore reconciliation in the country, she should not forget that her core supporters could turn against her.
Some groups within the red-shirt movement do not seem happy about the ruling party's latest strategy, especially the meeting between Yingluck and some of her Cabinet members and Privy Council President Prem Tinsulanonda at his residence today.
They warned the government of a backlash from trying to appease the elite while disappointing its red-shirt supporters.
They insisted that the government should bring the wrongdoers in the deaths of the 91 victims of the crackdown in April-May 2010 to justice.
The red-shirt supporters were also dismayed when they heard several of their leaders urging them to forgive and forget in exchange for the country's future or for the sake of the country.
The red supporters felt that the victims, who were sacrificed for the ruling party, were abandoned while the leaders are now rewarded with ministerial posts.
However, Thaksin is aware of that.
He tried to boost the popularity of the government among the red shirts during the Songkran holiday.
He tried to show sympathy for his supporters after the government was accused of deserting the red-shirt supporters.
But it did not work.
Despite realising that the meeting with Prem could lead to a big and severe wound in the future, Yingluck and her party pushed hard for reconciliation and suggested several options
First, Foreign Minister Surapong Tovichakchaikul, who is close to Thaksin, said he tried to raise the reconciliation issue at the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday.
But he may have just wanted to test the waters, as in the end, he did not propose it for consideration.
He earlier proposed to the government to heed suggestions from the Truth for Reconciliation Commission of Thailand.
But its chairman Kanit na Nakorn rejected the idea as he did not want to be manipulated as a political tool for Pheu Thai.
Second, another close aide of Thaksin, Noppadon Pattama, suggested issuing a reconciliation bill sponsored by small political parties or civic groups or the people, not the one sponsored by the ruling Pheu Thai, in order to avoid criticism over a conflict of interest.
Noppadon's suggestion seems to be the most welcome as Chart Thai Pattana, a coalition partner, supported the idea.
Third, Snoh Thienthong, a Pheu Thai key figure and party-list MP, voiced support for a reconciliation bill to bring Thaksin home on condition that Thaksin will not ask for the return of his seized Bt46 billion (S$1.8 billion.
But critics believe it would not be possible, as Thaksin definitely wants his money back.
Last, Deputy Prime Minister Chalerm Yoobamrung, who was the first person in Pheu Thai to suggest a draft for reconciliation, suggested that the Pheu Thai Party sponsor the bill but his proposal was ignored by his party colleagues.
His idea is likely to fizzle out, as the PM has repeatedly made it clear that she will leave the issue to the legislature.
However, the final say on which proposal will be used could not be made by anyone else than the only man who will benefit from the reconciliation bill - Thaksin.
The reason why Thaksin and his sister's government are pushing so hard for reconciliation is because they think the government now has solid stability while the resistance is so weak.
But one thing Thaksin, Yingluck and her government members should be well aware of is that a pardon for Thaksin is a very sensitive issue.
Not only does the public closely follow the issue but also the military, which has kept a keen eye on it.
