Tsinghua University is to set up a four-year pilot training course with China's air force, an official of the university said on Thursday.
The aviation course at the prestigious university in Beijing will enroll 32 male high school graduates aged under 19 from across the country and train them to meet the challenges of high-tech and information-based instrument flying, according to enrollment regulations posted on Tsinghua's admission website this week.
Trainee pilots will be awarded the rank of first lieutenant on successful completion of the course.
"It's a teaching project held by our university and the Air Force of the People's Liberation Army," said an official from the university's admissions office.
"Future pilots need higher physical and mental qualities," he said.
The trainees will study at the university's school of aerospace for the first three years and at the Aviation University of the PLA Air Force in the final year. Tuition and accommodation fees will be paid by the air force.
"The students will get a military rank in the third year and be honored with first lieutenant when they graduate from the university," the official said, adding that the enrollment process is in accordance with the pilot selection requirements of the air force.
Graduates will get a bachelor degree from both Tsinghua and the aviation university, the regulation said.
Zhang Jian, a flight group official from Air China, said the course can be seen as a new step in the development of pilot training and selection.
"Tsinghua University has comprehensive education sources and excellent teachers that provide a high-class structure for students to attain abundant flying knowledge," Zhang said.
He said at present, most pilots graduate from military universities and schools set up by airlines.
"Courses in those universities may be no different to the one in Tsinghua, but the latter may have better conditions for studying," he said.
However, Zhang said Tsinghua might not provide sufficient practical flying tuition, compared with professional flying schools.
"A pilot should have good physical qualities and professional-level experience, as well as quick reactions to emergency situations that an ordinary university can't teach," he said.
"After all, teachers in regular universities haven't any experience as aviators."
After the enrollment regulation was published on Monday, several parents and high school students called the admissions office at Tsinghua University, but most were inquiries.
