Fielding phone calls from the United States and the United Kingdom have become common for Dr Hari Ramesh. Sometimes he even has to answer these calls at night.
The people calling him from foreign shores are anxious and their calls are to enquire about their aged parents or grandparents living in Chennai.
To them Dr Ramesh is a godsend. For he runs a service called Home Health Care, which costs US$1,000 (S$1,271) a year for Non-resident Indians (NRIs) who wish to enrol their aged parents.
After the sign-up, Dr Ramesh and his team pay regular visits to the senior citizens signed on the programme and conduct a series of tests (including ECG, blood sugar, blood pressure). His team also extends nursing services like injections, dressing, nebulisation and catheterisation. The package includes a 24-hour doctor-on-call and ambulance service. The children of these aged patients are then updated on the progress by e-mail.
Dr Ramesh told tabla!: "The membership for this programme is restricted strictly to those who are above 80 and live alone and should not have any other son or daughter who live with them."
For the elderly who have children living with them, he has another package with an annual subscription which is less than the NRI package.
Dr Ramesh has a team of four medical officers, 42 nurses and half a dozen paramedics. Three ambulances are always on standby for emergencies and he also has some specialist medical consultants on the clinic's panel. If the need arises, these specialists visit the people enrolled in the programme at their homes for a fee. And in case they need hospitalisation they are treated at one of the two hospitals run by Dr Ramesh in the Adyar area of the city - Swaram Hospital and Padmapriya Hospital.
Dr Ramesh has 65 senior citizens who have been signed up under the NRI package and 550 in the non-NRI category - this costs Rs20,000 (S$457) a year and it is for those over the age of 70.
Almost all of those in the NRI scheme are parents or grandparents of Indians residing in the US or the UK. London-based director of Tata Consultancy Services Aditya Jaigopal Nagarajan is one satisfied NRI who signed up his grandparents for the scheme.
"We saw their advertisement in Adyar Times (a Chennai city neighbourhood paper) and spoke to them.
To be honest, I was very cautious about the nature and quality of the service as it concerned my grandparents who are 75 and 85 years old. So we went to DrRamesh's clinic in Adyar, spoke to the staff and understood how they operate," said MrNagarajan, who has been living in London for the last eight years and visits his grandparents about three to four times a year.
"I also spoke to one of his patients. Overall we developed a good feeling with him and his team. That was three years ago and we began the journey since then."
Another satisfied client is Chennai-based homemaker Nandhini Prasad who signed up her father, an American citizen, for the scheme when he moved to India.
Her brother lives in the US and she got to know Dr Ramesh about 10 years ago when her grandmother was his patient. So when he explained the scheme in detail, it impressed her sufficiently to make her enrol her father.
"My father is happy and satisfied. The doctors visiting him answer every question of his which makes him comfortable," Ms Prasad tells tabla! in an e-mail.
And for this, he is teaming up with New Jersey-based investment banker Raghu Ram, whose parents were enrolled in the NRI scheme six years ago. Mr Ram's mother died a year ago, while his 94-year-old father continues to be looked after by DrRamesh and his team.
The 59-year-old doctor graduated from Stanley Medical College in Chennai in 1975 and set up practice a year later in Adyar. He says he was one of the first to introduce the concept of a 24-hour outpatient clinic in the 1980s which has since caught on rapidly with 125 such clinics dotting Chennai now.
He, however, credits the birth of his Home Health Care scheme to his wife Padmaja, a doctor specialising in internal medicine. It was her initiative as she felt they needed to show gratitude to the loyalty of patients who have been seeking treatment since the clinic was set up in 1976.
The NRI scheme, which is part of the Home Health Care programme, started around 12 years ago but it picked up momentum in recent years after more and more Indian professionals started moving to the West. Dr Ramesh feels that Singapore NRIs have not signed up yet because their parents may be living with a sibling in Chennai.
He says that within six months of launching the NRI scheme he realised that parents of Indians in India are no better than those of NRIs: "The only difference is that in the case of NRI parents, the children are away 24 hours; and in the case of Indian parents, the children are away for 12 hours."
However, resistance to the NRI scheme often comes from the elderly parents themselves.
"The main reason is that they start converting the dollar value into Indian currency," explains Dr Ramesh, who went on to recount an incident when he was trying to recruit his first NRI client.
"I was discussing with the son who was based in the US and explaining to him the proposal when his 83-year-old father, a former director of IIT, checked his accounts book and said that he only spent Rs18,000 for medical expenses the whole of the previous year which included medicines too. He started discouraging his son not to spend Rs40,000 (US$1,000 was worth that much in 2000) which, in his opinion, was very high.
"It is not that he was stingy. Strangely, he insisted on taking up a costlier health package for his wife with one condition, that he would pay the subscription and not his son.
"The moral of the story: Never discuss the proposal in the presence of the prospective member. Target the caregiver to promote your project," says the doctor.
But once word got around of his service, he started getting more and more inquiries.
London-based retired management consultant Venu Poduval came to know about Dr Ramesh when his mother had a fall and needed hip replacement surgery, which was done at one of Dr Ramesh's clinics.
"My mother shares my opinion of Dr Ramesh's service, although the nursing care at home could improve a lot more with more experienced care assistants. At present this is the only aspect of the service that needs improvement."
Another recent sign-up was Florida-based Latha Krishnaiyer. Her 88-year-old mother has been living alone in Chennai for the past 10 years. Her only sibling, her younger sister, died last year and that's when she came to know about Dr Ramesh's scheme. She signed up in March and finds that her mother is happy.
"Having Dr Ramesh's service is an incredible boon as lack of medical attention has been my main concern. My mother does not like to visit a hospital as she thinks they will hospitalise her. That is exactly what happened to her early in February and having been taken to a hospital that believed in prolonging her stay and also recommended procedures such as pacemakers and stents, which a second and third opinion proved were not needed, makes it essential that regular medical visits are made to elderly folks.
"This situation would not have occurred if I had her enrolled in DrRamesh's programme at that time. Therefore, it is a huge relief that she is being seen by a doctor in her home regularly, thus minimising her anxiety over having to go to a hospital for check-ups and blood tests," says MsKrishnaiyer, who has been living in the US for the past 42 years but visits her mother every few months.
When Singapore-based writer and social worker Ramya Nageswaran was told about Dr Ramesh's Home Health Care programme, she thought it was an "awesome idea". Her parents, in their mid-to-late 70s, live with her brother near Adyar, in Chennai, but they are "reluctant to trouble him as he is a busy real estate lawyer". She says her mother always complains about the long wait at her doctor's clinic.
"She once had to wait for two hours after having spent an hour travelling to get there. By the time her turn came she was hungry, tired and sleepy. So, I can see them certainly looking at this with a lot of interest. But my dad is a very careful person and always prefers to go to our family doctor. So he might need a bit of convincing about the competence and credibility of the new doctor," says Mrs Nageswaran.
While Dr Ramesh finds his NRI programme an interesting business model, he does not intend to make it an all-India venture. He has got inquiries from doctors in other parts of India but feels that a business like this is highly personalised and needs a lot of funding.
"Anybody who wants to provide similar services in other metros like Mumbai, Kolkata and Delhi are welcome and I will extend my help to them and I shall never consider them as my competitors," he says.
For now he is content to build on the brand value he has established for himself in Chennai. His son Dinesh Deepak recently joined him after completing a master's degree in public health from Boston University and daughter Priyatharini is doing her studies to qualify as a doctor. Medical care for them is a family business.
