BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN - Europe and Southeast Asia on Friday pushed for a new chapter in relations, as Myanmar embraces democratic reforms and the EU seeks growth markets amid its crippling debt crisis.
Foreign ministers and senior diplomats from the two regions met in the oil-rich sultanate Brunei to chart ways to boost cooperation in areas ranging from trade to disaster management and security.
Myanmar's efforts to open up have removed a perennial thorn in ties, but economists said Europe's economic woes had also spurred the continent to bolster ties with Southeast Asia, a region of nearly 600 million people.
"The EU economy is in the middle of a protracted economic slump - which will be Europe's 'lost decade' - forcing the EU to desperately seek new growth markets for EU exports," said Rajiv Biswas, chief Asia-Pacific economist at IHS Global Insight.
"Secondly, ASEAN has emerged as a more powerful regional bloc," he told AFP, referring to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
"For EU companies facing weak growth prospects in their home markets, the ASEAN region is a highly attractive market, with rapid economic growth and a fast-growing consumer middle class."
Over the past year Myanmar's quasi-civilian government, led by President Thein Sein, an ex-general, has taken steps to address criticism about the country's poor human rights record and suppression of political dissent.
It has freed hundreds of political prisoners, eased media restrictions and welcomed Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi's opposition back into politics.
Myanmar held historic by-elections on April 1 in which Suu Kyi won a seat in parliament, and has floated its currency and signalled it is ready to accept more foreign investment.
The European Union this month rewarded the "historic changes" in Myanmar by suspending for one year a wide range of trade, economic and individual sanctions, although it left intact an arms embargo.
"The remarkable transformation that is underway in Myanmar will further strengthen EU-ASEAN relations," EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton said.
In an opinion piece published in the Jakarta Post ahead of the one-day ministerial meeting in Brunei, she said the gathering would "jointly commend the significant progress made by Myanmar towards a democratic future".
Ashton is due to visit Myanmar this weekend, as is UN chief Ban Ki-moon.
Among the European ministers in Brunei were British Foreign Secretary William Hague and German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle, who also heads to Myanmar this weekend.
"We will turn the page from restrictive measures to full engagement," Ashton told Friday's meeting, according to a Twitter post by ASEAN secretary-general Surin Pitsuwan.
The EU said in January it would open an office in the country's main city Yangon to manage aid programmes.
"I would say, yes, it is a new chapter because Myanmar is no longer a constant thorn like in the past," a Southeast Asian diplomat told AFP.
But one analyst said it was still "early days" and Myanmar needs to do more for ties with the West to fully bloom.
"So while Myanmar is no longer a thorn in the side, the wounds haven't yet healed," said Justin Harper, market strategist at IG Markets Singapore.
Surin said in another Twitter message meanwhile that the EU would sign an ASEAN-initiated non-aggression pact called the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation at a July meeting in Cambodia.
Signing the treaty is one condition for entry into the East Asia Summit, a forum of countries including the 10-member ASEAN bloc, China and the United States.
