HA NOI - Viet Nam and Laos need to step up information and experience exchange in administrative reform and wage policy as they are common concerns of the two home affairs bodies, said President Truong Tan Sang. Sang's remark was made at his reception for visiting Lao Minister of Home Affairs Khampan Philavong in Ha Noi yesterday.
The President lauded the working results between the two home affairs ministers, saying that agreements reached on public administration between the two agencies would help deepen the special friendship ties of the two nations.
He also spoke highly of the growth of Lao public administration and the country's socio-economic development.
Khampan Philavong said wage reform and personnel training were two crucial tasks of the Lao socio-economic development strategy.
He said Laos hoped to receive support from Viet Nam in regards to administrative reform.
Also yesterday, Viet Nam and Laos signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) that aims to boost co-operation on issues concerning civil servants, public affairs, local authority management, and administrative reforms.
Under the MoU, both home affairs ministries will increase the exchange of information and experience in fields of their charge as well as visits by senior level officials and specialists.
The Vietnamese Ministry of Home Affairs will provide professional assistance to its Lao counterpart by sending specialists to help draw up policies and laws for this field.
Viet Nam will also offer one-month training courses for 20 Lao officials each year.
Vice President Nguyen Thi Doan led a Vietnamese high-level delegation to Laos yesterday for a three-day official visit.
Doan was received by Lao top leaders, including Prime Minister Thoongsinh Thammavong, Vice President Boungnang Volachit and National Assembly Chairman Pani Zahthotou in separate meetings.
Leaders of the two countries agreed that the special Viet Nam-Laos relations had been growing in all aspects, including politics, national defence-security, economics-trade-investment and education and training.
Specifically, two-way trade turnover continued to soar at 30-40 per cent average each year. Viet Nam has become the leading investor in Laos with over US$3.57 billion (S$4.52 billion).
The two sides also wanted to expand the ties by implementing agreements reached by top leaders and various agencies, creating favourable conditions for Vietnamese enterprises operating in Laos and increasing the quality and efficiency of Vietnamese-granted projects in Laos.
They hoped to bring the two-way trade turnover to US$2 billion by 2015, along with further co-operation on education, health care, tourism and telecommunications.
Viet Nam affirmed to support Laos to soon join the Worth Trade Organisation, host the 9th Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM 9), and the 7th Asia-Europe Parliamentary Partnership (ASEP 7) by the end of this year.
Laos promised to work closely with other countries in sustainable use of the Mekong River as a water resource with special attention to environmental impact.
Regarding the investment environment, Doan told the Lao PM that she hoped the two countries would soon sign an agreement on investment protection and encouragement.
The two countries mark this year as Viet Nam-Laos Friendship Year.
