SHANGHAI - From the outside, The Shelter looks like any other building in Yongfu Road, and it is a favourite hangout for Shanghai clubbers.
But walk through the doors, down a narrow stairway and through a winding tunnel to the main room, with its bare cement walls and the smell of mould, and it is clear that this is a nightclub like no other.
The Shelter is one of a handful of former bomb shelters that are finding new life as commercial venues.
"It is gloomy and clammy, and unique," said Ms Kis Chen, a 29-year-old office worker, who loves exotic clubbing scenes.
"The smell reminds me of my childhood home," she added, referring to the musty smell of clothes and furniture familiar to many Shanghai residents during the summer's rainy season.
Hundreds of thousands of bomb shelters were built across China in the 1960s and 1970s to prepare for possible air raids from the former Soviet Union.
It is unclear how many of the underground shelters were built in Shanghai. But the local government says there are about 2,000 in the Xuhui district, where The Shelter is located.
The shelters were let out by the government after tensions with the former Soviet Union eased in the mid-1970s. There is no specific figure on how many have been converted.
For many such places, the unusual structure of the shelters - as well as their underground location - is used to good advantage.
One example is a shop called MANifesto, which sells underwear exclusively for men. Shoppers say the secretive location offers an extra "sense of safety" for those who do not want to be seen.
And at wine seller Ruby Red, marketing manager Flora Wang says the naturally cool temperature is perfect.
"Our clients think this bomb-shelter structure is very professional," she said, in the 600 sq m cellar filled with wooden boxes.
The Shelter went through incarnations as a vegetable market, ice-storage facility, massage parlour and even a public bathhouse, before taking on its current form as a nightclub in 2007.
Now, it is one of the more popular venues among the clubbing set, featuring music such as reggae, and drum and bass.
The club sometimes throws "pitch-dark" parties, switching all the lights off and leaving only the music on.
Mr Brett Simons, a 28-year- old software engineer from Australia, said: "It is different from all the other commercial bars in Shanghai.
"This underground place is quite cool."
