BEIJING - The wife of ousted Chongqing party chief Bo Xilai has confessed to killing British businessman Neil Heywood, the Asahi Shimbun reported last Friday, quoting Chinese Communist Party sources.
Gu Kailai was detained for suspected involvement in the murder of Mr Heywood - who was a one-time close family associate - earlier this year, while her husband is being probed for corruption.
Mr Bo's dismissal in April came after his former police chief fled to a United States consulate and divulged suspicions that the former party chief's wife was involved in Mr Heywood's death.
The Asahi report said that, according to their sources, Gu told investigators that she killed the Briton to stop him from spilling the beans on illegal remittances of billions of dollars abroad that he had allegedly helped her to arrange.
She was already being investigated for the illegal remittances when the 41-year-old Heywood was discovered dead in a Chongqing hotel in November.
Chongqing police had told the British Embassy then that he had died of "alcohol overconsumption" and his body was cremated without an autopsy, with the consent of his family.
Asahi Shimbun said its sources had access to an interim investigation report circulated among senior party officials, which said that Gu, 53, admitted to killing Mr Heywood after feeling "driven into a corner" by the investigation into her financial dealings. The sources also said that officials have decided to indict Gu.
Another close friend of Gu, Frenchman Patrick Devillers, was detained in Cambodia on June 13 for possible links to the death of Mr Heywood.
Cambodian officials have said that they will not extradite him.
They detained Mr Devillers at China's request but needed more evidence of wrongdoing to hand him over to another nation.
When Mr Bo was mayor of Dalian in the 1990s, Mr Devillers, an architect, had helped him rebuild the city, but he denied in an e-mail message to The New York Times last month that he had been engaged in any illegal financial transactions.
