BRUNEI-MUARA - Retired army personnel Kamis Syawal, 73, was all smiles and in high spirits yesterday when a group of youth from the Youth Development Centre handed over some clothes and food for his family of six.
He is the sole provider for his wife, two children and two grandchildren.
Kamis told The Brunei Times he receives two monthly pensions - $500 from the army and $250 from the Community Development Department (JAPEM) for his old-age pension.
Although he was not complaining about his situation, he did not deny it was difficult for them to get by.
He explained both his children are unemployed, and he has to use the money to support the entire household.
They live in the interiors of Kg Tanah Jambu, without electricity supply. This, he said, was because they live on a Temporary Occupation Licence (TOL) land.
Every month, about $150 of his pension has to go to buying fuel for their generator in order to provide electricity to their home.
Meanwhile for water, he said they had made a man-made well next to their house as water coming in from the pipe was of low pressure.
"The water comes down from the (hill) into the well. Even if it does not rain for three months, there will still be water in it," he explained.
The family survives on rice, bread and instant noodles (maggi) most of the time. But Kamis said he has not eaten rice in 10 years, only because he gets headaches when he consumes it.
Kamis' 39-year-old son was present during yesterday's visit. When asked whether he was intending on getting a job to help keep the family afloat, he said, "I applied for many jobs but have been rejected. I am now waiting for an interview for the position of a security guard."
Both his children are also living in the same house.
Meanwhile, Kamis' daughter Faridah lives next door with her six children.
Both Faridah and her husband do not work. She said she has to stay at home and take care of her children, and her husband is unable to work as he is visually impaired.
The 40-year-old said the family gets by from $800 received from Baitul Mal monthly. However, they will stop receiving it in 2014.
Asked what she plans to do to earn money when she stops receiving welfare assistance, she said, "I am planning to start up a nasi katok business, InsyaAllah."
She added she will not rely solely on government assistance, because this will send a "wrong message" to her children.
"The government has asked people to put more effort to make lives better for themselves. I accept the call. (Depending on government assistance) will send a wrong message to my children."
