Tokyo Gov. Shintaro Ishihara's announcement that the metropolitan government plans to buy three of the Senkaku Islands has shaken the central government from its slumber on the territorial issue.
At a press conference Tuesday evening, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura even said the central government would consider buying the islands from their private owners to place them under state control.
Ishihara's announcement Monday apparently reflected his frustration at the Democratic Party of Japan's tepid handling of sovereignty over Japanese territory and waters since it came to power in 2009. The DPJ's wishy-washy diplomacy with China also was reportedly a factor.
The islands, which are administered by Ishigaki, Okinawa Prefecture, are claimed by China and Taiwan.
Currently, the government pays rent to the owners of four islands in the uninhabited five-islet chain, mainly for maintenance and administration purposes. If the central government takes ownership of the islands, it will be possible to ensure the islands stay under permanent Japanese control and maintain effective dominance over them.
The issue has been simmering since a Chinese fishing boat collided with two Japan Coast Guard patrol vessels near the Senkaku Islands in September 2010, when former Prime Minister Naoto Kan was in office.
Since that incident, China has beefed up activities by its fishery patrol boats and ocean research vessels in waters near the Senkakus.
Russian President Dmitry Medvedev's visit to the northern territories off northeastern Hokkaido soon after the boat collisions raised more questions about the government's stance on territorial issues.
A Liberal Democratic Party member who served as foreign minister lamented, "China and Russia are looking down on Japan."
Stung by these developments, the administration of Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda started strengthening security of Japan's waters and remote islands. For example, the government submitted bills to the current Diet session to revise the Japan Coast Guard Law and the Law on Navigation of Foreign Ships in the Territorial Seas and Internal Waters.
The Chinese government used diplomatic channels to express "interest" in Tokyo's plan to the Japanese government Tuesday afternoon.
A senior Foreign Ministry official said Tuesday: "If the plan materializes, it will prompt a harsher reaction from China. These moves might give Beijing the impression that many Japanese stakeholders are ganging up against them over the Senkaku Islands, and that might not be to Japan's benefit."
