New Taipei City Mayor Chu Liluan and another senior official at the city government made open apologies following media reports that one of their colleagues teasingly staged a male strip dancing when attending a training course sponsored by taxpayers' money.
The Department of Information at the city government arranged a bartending course for around 30 staff members in the department last Thursday.
The city government spent close to NT$10,000 (S$425) to purchase materials and invite trainers to teach the group of public servants how to tend bar and concoct drinks like in night clubs.
When imbibing the prepared alcoholic drinks, someone closed the doors of the classroom in the city hall and one male employee started taking off his clothes in a male strip dancing show.
His performance apparently drove his colleagues wild and the women co-workers let out loud screams in their excitement.
Some images of the special show ended up on Facebook and news sites on the Internet. They were later picked up by some local print media and TV channels.
New Taipei City Council members blasted Mayor Chu and Lin Chieh-you, director of the information department, for using public funds to stage a night club-style strip dance.
One of them said it was no wonder that the public rating for Mayor Chu's performance on the job was one of the lowest among all local administrators in Taiwan.
The council member said it was entirely improper for employees to drink and dance, especially erotic striptease dancing, at the classroom, which is normally used to give media briefings on the city government's policies concerning public affairs.
Chu apologized to the public for the misconduct of the young employee.
He instructed all senior officials at the city government to carry out a thorough review of all employee training courses and weed out the controversial classes.
All staff members at the city government have to take at least 40 hours of training courses a year, including 20 hours of requirements and 20 hours for selective courses, to better serve the taxpayers.
Lin said that the bartending course was designed to help his hard-working staff relax and learn some cocktail mixing skills for use at home on holidays.
Lin apologized to the public to take full responsibility for the behavior of the staff member, who had joined the Department of Information just several weeks before the incident.
He promised to review and rearrange the training courses to avoid similar incidents in the future.
Some commentators said there is nothing wrong with arranging entertainment courses in the employees training programs as long as the trainees can learn some useful skills to help with their performance on the job.
But there should be no negative messages sent out to draw criticism from taxpayers who pay the money for all of the training courses.
