SEOUL - South Korean party chiefs Tuesday made their final appeals to voters before a closely contested parliamentary election, a key test of sentiment in the run-up to December's presidential poll.
"It's time to judge the current regime!" opposition leader Han Myeong-Sook, clad in her party's signature yellow jacket, urged the public in Seoul's Songpa district.
"Allow us to end the Lee Myung-Bak administration and give you spring," she said.
Wednesday's vote is seen as a referendum on President Lee's term in office, and an indication of whether his successor can retain the powerful presidency for the conservatives in eight months' time.
Presidents serve a single five-year term and parliaments are elected for four years. This will be the first time in two decades that the votes fall in the same year.
Lee's New Frontier Party (NFP) had 165 seats in the outgoing parliament against 89 for the main opposition centre-left Democratic United Party (DUP), but Wednesday's vote is seen as too close to call.
Opinion polls are banned this week but experts quoted Monday by Yonhap news agency predicted a dead heat, with each side winning 130 seats in the 300-member National Assembly.
Interim NFP leader and likely presidential candidate Park Geun-Hye depicted the DUP as socially divisive and bent on dismantling a decades-old security alliance with the United States.
"Whether Korea chooses chaos and division, or opens a hopeful future, depends on your decision," Park, the daughter of assassinated strongman president Park Chung-Hee, told voters.
"Can they (the DUP) abandon security and the national interest for such outdated ideology, when North Korea is threatening to proceed with a third nuclear test and to launch missiles?"
North Korea plans to launch a rocket between April 12 and 16. But livelihood issues - rising prices, high education and housing costs, job difficulties, a widening income gap and a weak welfare system - are the key election topics.
Both parties pledge to expand state welfare and tighten controls over the mighty conglomerates, or chaebol, which dominate the economy and are accused of stifling small business.
The NFP backs a recently ratified free trade agreement with the United States, while the DUP vows to renegotiate it.
In the run-up to the election, the NFP ditched its old name of the Grand National Party along with many former legislators to try to shed its image as a party for the rich.
It has also sought to distance itself from a scandal about alleged spying by the prime minister's office on vocal critics of the government.
Any such surveillance is especially sensitive in South Korea, which only achieved democracy in 1987 after four decades of army-backed authoritarian rule.
The presidential office tried to turn the tables, saying most of the surveillance cases which came to light dated back to the previous left-leaning government. The opposition denies the claim.
Given a strong generational divide, with younger people largely backing the opposition and older electors supporting the conservatives, turnout will be closely watched to see if the DUP can mobilise the youth vote.
Twitter and other social networks may play a major role in this, as they did last October when an opposition-backed candidate defeated a conservative opponent to win the Seoul mayoral race.
Some 246 legislators will be directly elected on Wednesday and another 54 through proportional representation. About 40.18 million people are eligible to vote.
