TAIWAN - All four members of a family were found last night lying dead in pools of blood at their home in Shulin District, New Taipei City, according to the Shulin Police Precinct.
The four included Wu Ching-hong, 37, his wife Lee Chia-hsin, 38, their daughter Wu Yi-hsuan, 6, and son Wu Kuan-hsien, 4.
Wu's house, located on the third floor of a residential building in Wenlin Borough of Shulin District, was cordoned off to facilitate police investigation, with Hou You-yi, deputy mayor of New Taipei City present at the site to monitor the investigation.
Police found knife-inflicted wounds on all four of the bodies. The state of decomposition of the bodies suggests that they have been dead for several days.
Wu's house was in a chaotic state, with Wu and his wife lying on the floor, and their children lying on the bed.
On the wall of the house, there were bloody Chinese characters meaning that "I hate &hellip;I would revenge," according to the police.
After receiving calls from a division office of Shulin Police Precinct at 6.36pm yesterday that all the Wu family members hadn't gone out or made contact with anyone, staffers of the Fire Bureau of New Taipei City rushed to their home, only to discover them lying dead in pools of blood.
Meanwhile, staffers of the Social Affairs Bureau said that they didn't find any records of the Wu family in the databank of domestic violence and high-risk families, and they also had little knowledge about how the Wu family members dealt with their neighbors.
But neighbors told the police that Wu, working at a gas store, got drunk when returning home last Friday, that his wife recently was diagnosed with cervical cancer and their son suffered from cerebral palsy.
They said that Wu's family was living a very hard life, probably plagued by serious financial burdens or high interest payments demanded by an underground money lender.
The police also found that Wu tried to borrow money from his wife's relatives, but was rejected after he declined to reveal the usage of the money.
Police believe that Wu probably killed himself after stabbing his wife and children to death. The police will further investigate the case to find out the real cause behind the family tragedy.
Just two days earlier, another family of four in Shulin District committed suicide by charcoal-burning.
