HAADYAI, Thailand - As coordinated bomb blasts rocked the towns of Yala and Pattani in the southern Thai province, an attack occurred at a hotel in this city, killing five people including a Malaysian.
The Malaysian has been identified as Low Thian Hock, 46, from Kulim.
However, there are unconfirmed reports over Thai's PBS television station that two more Malaysian tourists may have been killed.
Twenty-seven Malaysians were also among the estimated 300 to 400 people injured in the bomb attack.
Thai police chief Preawpan Damapong later confirmed that the explosion at the 33-storey Lee Garden Hotel, initially believed to have been due to a gas leak, was caused by a car bomb.
Haadyai Mayor Prai Pattano said the bomb was located in the basement of the hotel.
The attack, which occurred just minutes after the Yala blasts, originated from a car parked at the B2 level of the hotel, causing a gas cylinder in the kitchen and store of a fast food outlet upstairs to explode.
Malaysian consul-general in Songkhla Mohd Aini Atan said so far, only one Malaysian had been confirmed killed in the attack.
"Ten Malaysians injured in the attack have been warded at Haadyai Hospital while 17 others received outpatient treatment," he said.
The injured Malaysians in the Lee Garden Plaza Hotel explosion at about 1pm yesterday were trapped in the building for about two hours, added Mohd Aini.
The three bomb blasts in Yala, which occurred minutes apart, killed at least 10 people and wounded more than 100.
Several shophouses near the blast sites were set on fire and many parked cars and motorcycles were damaged by the powerful explosions.
Relating the Haadyai incident, Malaysian Irwan Ahmad Rejab, 30, said he had just left the hotel and was about to leave for Songkhla on a day trip with his wife, three children and mother when he heard the blast.
"I asked the driver to turn back to see what was happening. When I reached my hotel, I saw glass strewn all over the road and it was chaos with policemen and medical personnel everywhere.
"Luckily, I got out 30 minutes earlier. I shudder to think what would have happened to me and my family if we were still in our room," said the civil servant from Kajang, Selangor.
Another Malaysian, who wanted to be known only as Lim, 43, from Penang, said he was in a nearby temple praying when he heard the explosion.
"I was supposed to leave Haadyai in a few days but now I want to go back as soon as possible," he said.
The building has been cordoned off by the police.
