With former Prime Minister Lee Hae-chan as its new chairman, the main opposition Democratic United Party is expected to step up preparations for the presidential election in December.
In a dramatic come-from-behind victory, Lee grabbed the party's chairmanship in its national convention Saturday. He beat rival Rep. Kim Han-gil.
His election is widely expected to boost the partisan support for Moon Jae-in, a life-time aide to late former President Roh Moo-hyun and first-time lawmaker from Busan, as its presidential candidate.
We should round up the in-party primary and also unify with non-party (presidential) candidates as soon as possible," said the newly-elected party chief.
Moon is seen as the party's presidential frontrunner, followed by South Gyeongsang Governor Kim Doo-kwan, senior party advisers Sohn Hak-kyu and Chung Dong-young, and former party chief Chung Sye-kyun.
Professor Ahn Cheol-soo, who has so far remained rather vague on his political plans, is considered a potential candidate from outside the party and a threat to all DUP contestants.
Moon, ever since he joined the liberal opposition party, has been deemed the only figure from within the party who could be a match to Park Geun-hye, the ruling Saenuri Party's dominant presidential hopeful.
Partisan support for him seemed to be faltering after he defended Lee and his controversial arrangement with floor leader Park Jie-won to share party leadership positions between the two.
The trio formed a conspicuous pro-Roh faction within the party, sparking a backlash of other members and turning the party leadership race into a nail-biter.
"The DUP, in order to renew itself and impress the people before the presidential election, should first overcome its decades-long factional disputes," said Rep. Kim who ended up second in the leadership race.
Lee's chairmanship thus came as a relief to Moon, as he would have otherwise lost face for backing the Lee-Park alliance.
Moon is nevertheless left to shake off his image as a mere former presidential aide and rise above the shadows of the deceased president.
He is reportedly planning to announce his presidential candidacy as soon as next Sunday.
Governor Kim, who stood by Rep. Kim in the leadership race, failed to up his poll numbers and catch up with Moon.
He, however, displayed his influence in the Gyeongsang region during the campaign period, especially as candidate Kim lost by a minimal margin, performing above expectations.
On the other hand, the remaining figures ? Sohn and the two Chungs ? are now left to devise new plans to promote themselves by the upcoming in-party primary.
"I shall give my best efforts to elect the best presidential candidate and political vision for our party," said Lee.
He also suggested that the party restore its unity with the minority Unified Progressive Party for the sake of election victory.
"It is crucial for the liberal camp to win," he said, urging the scandal-ridden party to overcome its strife.
