TAIWAN - Taichung Mayor Jason Hu yesterday voiced disagreement over the central government's ongoing plan to build a sex-offender treatment facility within his city which was originally set to be completed in six months.
Hu called for the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) to suspend the project, which is currently being built near the vicinity of a Taichung university and has already caused the students and people living in a nearby neighborhood grave concern.
"I had no knowledge (about the project) and no one informed me beforehand," Hu said during a city government meeting yesterday.
The mayor asked the MOJ to immediately postpone the ongoing construction of the facility that is registered under the Pei Teh Hospital of the Taichung Prison.
According to city officials, Taichung approved the MOJ project only because it originally filed for an application to build a "psychiatry ward" instead of a sex-offender treatment facility.
Hu expressed anger over the construction of the facility which had been carried out under false pretenses. The mayor added that his city had rejected the MOJ's previous proposal to build a similar treatment facility three years ago, and he has no reason to approve this one now.
The mayor was concerned about the project because it was being built outside the Taichung Prison and could present a potential threat to nearby residents.
The facility is meant to house convicted sex offenders who are likely to commit sex-related crimes again after being released from prison. The new facility will provide compulsory treatment to offenders before they are return to society, according to the MOJ.
In response to accusations raised by Hu, Deputy Minister of Justice Chen Shou-huang said yesterday that the ongoing project has already been approved by the Cabinet and by the city government.
The facility is supposed to be completed as soon as possible after Taiwan's Supreme Court ruled last year that convicted sex offenders should undergo treatment in public hospitals instead of prisons, as is currently the standard.
Therefore, the MOJ has to build the treatment facility outside the Taichung Prison, Chen said.
Though the facility will not be inside a prison, Chen pledged yesterday that it will be guarded strictly by Taichung Prison authorities while the patients are being taking care of by doctors of Taichung's China Medical University.
