HAT YAI, Thailand - It has been more than a month, but one can still get a whiff of sulphur from the explosion on the second floor of the Lee Gardens Plaza Hotel multi-storey car park that claimed three lives, two of them Malaysians, and injuring nearly 400 people on March 31.
The explosion, linked to a Thai separatist group, has left a huge hole on the floor while the ceilings and walls are covered with thick and black markings from the smoke.
The daughter of the luxury hotel owner, Adchara Leelasitorn, said they were grateful that the pillars of the shopping mall-cum-hotel tower remained strong like the people here.
Outside the building, the hotel has erected two banners, expressing its appreciation for the support and encouragement from the Thai people, government and people all over the world as construction workers repair the damage.
Adchara, who is also an administration executive at the hotel, said the fast food restaurant at the hotel entrance, which was badly damaged, was expected to reopen on June 21, while the five-storey shopping mall would resume business by July.
She said reservations for the 405-room hotel were increasing since it re-opened two weeks after the attack. However, the number of tourists had declined due to the general concern among foreigners.
The hotel's occupancy rate hovered at 50 per cent compared with over 70 per cent prior to the incident.
"Business is picking up at a better pace than we had expected. Hopefully, the situation will improve in the next couple of months."
She said to enhance the hotel's security, they were acquiring explosive detector devices which would be placed at all entrances into the parking area.
The attack had affected the brisk tourism industry here, from shopping malls, massage parlour operators, souvenir shops, pubs, restaurants, travel agencies to the friendly tuk-tuk drivers.
A masseur at a salon-cum-foot reflexology outlet, located opposite the hotel, said business had dropped by almost 70 per cent.
"The town used to be packed with foreigners and shoppers during the weekend, but it is pretty quiet since the explosion."
"We are having a difficult time as business is slow. But we will not give up," said a clothing shop owner.
The Bank of Thailand has estimated that the bombing would cost the district here about RM150 million (S$61.1 million) in losses if businesses could recover within three months after the attack.
A local newspaper, The Nation, had quoted a senior director of the central bank, Pruettipong Srimachand, as saying that the figure would reached RM260 million if the recovery took six months.
Although tourism only contributes about 7.8 per cent to the southern Thai economy, its impact on the livelihood of businessmen and workers in the sector was a major concern for the government.
The authoritities in Songkhla have mobilised efforts with government agencies and the business community to restore confidence among tourists, especially Malaysians who make up the bulk of the holiday-makers and shoppers here.
Songkhla Province vice-governor Nattapong Sirichana said security had been stepped up with a heavy presence of security forces.
"We have also stationed policemen to monitor the 1,000 CCTVs (closed-circuit televisions) here and erected 41 inspection check- points into the town," Nattapong said at the launch of the "Wear Wig Be Rich 2012" event on Saturday here.
Present were Thailand consul-general to Penang Voradet Viravakin and chairman of Thailand's working group on tourism in the Indonesian-Malaysian-Thailand Growth Triangle (IMT-GT) Krit Prathanrasnikom.
Nattapong said hotel and shopping centres had also agreed to improve security on their premises, with shoppers screened at the entrances.
To show that the Thai people and the authorities were not intimidated by the attack, Nattapong said they were going ahead with the tourism-related programmes planned for the year.
Krit said the Thai government would intensify its cooperation with the Malaysian government in terms of tourism initiatives, including the strategic partnership with the Malacca and Penang governments.
