Taiwan's banks probably cheat customers out of over NT$13 million (S$$557,000) in interest per year because of delayed accounting of deposits, a legislator claimed yesterday.
Such delays occur when money is deposited or transferred through ATMs during non-office hours, said Legislator Chao Tien-lun from the Democratic Progressive Party.
The money deposited or transferred when the bank is closed will not go into the account until the next working day, meaning no interest will be given for the sum during the interval, Chao said.
He elaborated by saying that if a person deposits a sum of NT$500,000 after a bank closes for a 10-day Chinese New Year holiday, the customer will lose about NT$45.2 in interest during those 10 days.
That happens more often when people deposit money on Friday after banks close, and interest is not given over the weekend, he said, adding that such delays allow banks in Taiwan to pay at least NT$13 million less in interest.
The sum may not seem like much, but the lawmaker said he started investigating after receiving a complaint from a man claiming to have been cheated.
According the legislator, the man, surnamed Chen, deposited a sum on a Friday night. On Monday, he went to the bank to update his bank book, only to find that the sum was entered as a deposit received on Monday.
He asked a bank teller whether he would receive interest for the sum during the weekend. The teller answered, "It isn't much money" - implying there would be no interest for the two days.
But an official with the Cabinet's Financial Supervisory Commission (FSC), said banks must pay interest for sums deposited over the weekend or during holidays.
The official said the FSC will "correct" banks if they fail to do so.
Many major banks, such as Bank of Taiwan, First Commercial Bank and Chinatrsut Commercial Bank, responded by saying they pay interest starting from the day the sums are deposited through ATMs.
The situation that Chao described occurs only at a few of Taiwan's banks, according one report.
