BEIJING - Chinese farmers are set to expand corn acreage more than 2 per cent t his year to reach its largest spread ever, despite a growth rate flat with last year, as record domestic prices and grain subsidies by Beijing cut into soy acreages.
The lower soy acreage will ensure imports by China, the world's top buyer of the oilseed, stay robust while a better corn harvest will improve supply.
China is the world's second largest consumer of corn, of which it has been a net importer since 2009, after demand growth outpaced production.
"We expect corn acreage will no doubt increase at the same percentage as last year," said one analyst with official think-tank the China National Grain and Oils Information Center (CNGOIC).
China's total corn acreage rose 2 per cent to a record 33.15 million hectares in 2011, while soy acreage fell 10.2 per cent to 7.65 million hectares, official figures show.
"Local governments are encouraging farmers to increase grains acreage and the expansion will surely take away acreage for others, like soy and cotton," said the analyst, who declined to be identified, as he is not authorized to talk to the media.
HARVEST COULD RISE FOR NINTH YEAR
Beijing, gripped by food security concerns, will continue to give farmers subsidies to plant rice, corn and wheat, suggesting grain harvests will rise for a ninth straight year since the incentives began in 2003, if the weather stays favourable.
The central government has agreed to increase farmers' grain subsides by 14 per cent this year to 160.6 billion yuan (S$32.1 billion), after a rise of 17 per cent in 2011.
A survey in March by the government of Heilongjiang province, the country's largest corn grower in the northeast, showed the corn acreage would hit a record 6 million hectares in 2012, or a rise of 7 per cent from last year.
"Corn was popular and sold immediately after it was harvested."
Farmers last year made 1,000 yuan per mu of corn, an area equivalent to 0.06 hectare, far higher than the 600 yuan earned from the same unit of soy, Chen said.
Farmers in northern Heilongjiang are growing more early-maturing corn seeds, which can mature within 110 days and escape early frost frequent at harvest there, he added.
The soy acreage in Heilongjiang, which produces 40 per cent of China's soy, would fall by a fifth this year, in its third year of decrease in a row, said Wang Xiaoyu, deputy secretary general of the Heilongjiang Soybean Association.
In the neighbouring province of Jilin, the second largest corn-growing region, farmer Fu Yanming said he would double his corn acreage this year.
DRYNESS, PLANTING COSTS
Some 34 per cent of farmland in the northeast, the country's corn belt, is experiencing dry weather, the China National Grain and Oils Information Center said.
March rain had not helped break the drought, a key factor that threatens to delay planting, the agriculture ministry said.
Although some farmers told Reuters they had access to irrigation, they worry over rising planting costs.
"I hope the corn prices next year could be as high as last year, which can cover the rising planting costs," said Fu in Jilin.
Domestic physical corn prices at the largest port of Dalian
YC-FOBDLN hit a record of 2,480 yuan per tonne before harvest in October. The rise eased before rebounding last month to 2,440 yuan on tight domestic supply.
Hilongjian's Chen said farmers had to pay 20 per cent more to rent land from other farmers, besides an increases of 10 per cent in fertiliser and seeds prices.
