JAPAN - The average Japanese has about a 50 per cent chance of developing cancer in their lifetime. A person may feel extreme anxiety when diagnosed with the disease, but many counseling services are available for them--and their family.
Kazunori Nagaoka, 49, who lives in Chiba Prefecture, began visiting the "patient counseling support room" at the Chiba Cancer Center run by the prefectural government more than 1-1/2 years ago. He started going when the cancer in his thigh spread to his lung.
Nagaoka's doctor recommended chemotherapy. However, when Nagaoka looked for more information online, he was disturbed to find the treatment was sometimes described as "ineffective."
"If I can't recover from the disease, I wonder if there's any point in the treatment," he recalled thinking.
Nagaoka voiced his concerns at the counseling room. One counselor, Mayumi Noda, told him, "Even if your cancer isn't cured, you can know the living in coexistence with cancer while receiving treatment."
Nagaoka said: "Before, I only thought of beating the disease, so I felt hopeless when I realized this might not be possible. But after thinking about living with the disease, I found hope. By speaking with counselors, I could sort out my feelings."
Since then, Nagaoka has been undergoing the treatment so he can spend as much time as he can with his family.
Cancer patients and their families face numerous anxieties and questions, such as therapy selection, reasons to live, medical fees and so on.
To deal with these issues, counseling support centers were set up at 388 hospitals nationwide that are designated by the central government as specializing in cancer treatment.
The centers are known by different names. Nagaoka's is known as a "room." Not limited to patients at the hospital, the centers are open and free for anyone.
Some patients are so mentally fragile that they cannot make good decisions, especially immediately after a diagnosis or news of a relapse.
Akiko Nakamura, a nurse and counselor at the Chiba Cancer Center, said: "In addition to providing patients with necessary information, it's our role to understand what they are thinking and what they want to focus on. We also support them so they can make their own decisions."
Although cancer patients may experience anxiety over the disease, some are unsure about what they can discuss with experts. Others say they are embarrassed to visit support centers.
Patients and their families who feel this way can visit a "gan (cancer) salon," where they can visit without pressure and share their feelings or participate in a workshop.
The first gan salon was started in 2005 by cancer patients and others in Shimane Prefecture, and has since spread nationwide on a grassroots level. Many of the salons receive support from medical institutions and local governments and operate in the homes of patients and their families, hospitals and public halls.
In 2009, Gunma University Hospital established a "nagomi (relaxation) salon" in the hospital. Yoko Hara, who underwent an operation to treat salivary gland cancer, gained a new lease on life by visiting this salon.
"I felt relaxed by sharing my feelings with people who have had similar experiences and acknowledge each other. I was encouraged to move forward," she said.
Akemi Kakuta, a counselor at the hospital and a nurse specializing in cancer patient care, said, "I suggest patients casually stop by the salon to see if they feel comfortable there."
Support provided by people who have experienced cancer, like that given at gan salons, is called peer support. Organizations of cancer patients are active in Japan, including Me Net, a nonprofit organization that receives funding from the Nagoya municipal government to counsel patients.
Miki Hanai, who heads the NPO, says peer support can offer distinct benefits to cancer patients. "We have the advantage of wisdom and advice from people who've experienced cancer and can explain how to cope with side effects or help with questions to ask doctors," she said. But on the other hand, she also pointed out potential downsides--personal information can be leaked, and there have been good-intentioned peers whose desire to help others can be so strong that it makes patients uncomfortable.
The Health, Labor and Welfare Ministry is working on a training program to maintain quality counseling services. It is important to use these services, with the knowledge there is a limit to what they can do as they are not medical professionals.
Recently, other resources have become available. "Medical Cafe" is the medical professional version of the gan salon.
"Gan Tetsugaku Gairai" (Cancer Philosophy Clinic) is a place where oncologists and patients discuss their disease, treatments and advice on how to live their lives.
There are many support services available, but it is up to the patient to pick the one that best suits their needs.
"In the end, it's the patient who makes the final decision," said Shinji Ono, a doctor at the Kyushu Cancer Center in Fukuoka.
He also said, "I want them to use counseling services and select therapies that they understand and are comfortable with."
