NEW DELHI/MUMBAI - As the strike by a section of Air India pilots continued for a second day, forcing the cancellation of six international flights, Delhi High Court stepped in, directing the pilots to stop their "illegal strike", while the airline management sacked 16 more pilots.
As harried passengers complained of flight delays of several hours, six international flights, two from Mumbai and four from Delhi, were cancelled.
All other international flights are operating as a contingency plan has been put in place with the available pilots, an AI spokesperson said.
The government, which has been talking tough, said it was ready to talk to the protesting pilots but only after they resumed duty. The pilots are agitating over the rescheduling of Boeing 787 Dreamliner training and matters relating to their career progression.
Ms Justice Reva Khetrapal of Delhi High Court said in her order: "The defendant no. 1 (IPG), its members, agents and its office-bearers are restrained from illegal strike.
The pilots are also restrained from reporting sick, holding dharnas, staging demonstrations or resorting to any other modes of strike in and outside the company's offices in Delhi and other regional offices," Justice Khetrapal said in her order.
She also said allowing the strike to continue would cause irreparable loss to the company as well as huge inconvenience to the passengers travelling by the national carrier.
The airline management today terminated the services of 16 more pilots for refusing to join work, taking the total number of sacked pilots to 26.
Civil aviation minister Ajit Singh told reporters in Delhi: "If you (the pilots) have grievances, we can talk, but discussions and disruptions cannot take place simultaneously.
They should withdraw their strike and apologise to the passengers." He said the government has "a back-up plan... We can downsize... If employees are not interested that Air India should expand, then (the) government is not going to provide money to it."
"Air India is almost bankrupt. (It) is not able to pay salaries for months, (has) not paid... airport authority and oil marketing companies," he said, adding the government is trying to revive Air India by infusing Rs 30,000 crore of public money over a period of time, but there are strings attached.
He said the Justice Dharmadhikari panel report, on integration of workforces of the erstwhile Air India and Indian Airlines, including the issue of promotions, would be discussed in a month or two and pilots would be actively involved.
The de-recognised IPG was scheduled to discuss the issue and the sacking of 10 senior pilots at a meeting later today.
The agitating pilots have said they would continue the stir for at least five more days, till Sunday.
IPG president Jitendra Awhad said he was prepared to compromise on "99 per cent" of his demands provided the Air India management calls the pilots for talks.
Around 200 Air India pilots owing allegiance to IPG had reported sick yesterday, resulting in the cancellation of at least 13 international flights.
Following flight delays, AI passengers at several airports had heated exchanges with the airline staff, complaining that no information was being provided about their flights and no help rendered to accommodate them on alternate flights.
Air India yesterday terminated the services of 10 office-bearers of the IPG, which is spearheading the strike and de-recognised the union.
The action by the pilots has come at a critical juncture when the airline was hoping to retrieve lost ground with the peak vacation season and had secured a Rs 42,000 crore bailout package.
The issue figured in Parliament with members asking the government to ensure that concrete steps are taken to revive Air India. Some members said sacking pilots would not lead to any permanent solution. The AI management should work out a long-term settlement of the issue, they said.
