The Chinese nouveau riche complain that people who "hate the rich" are stupid and unreasonable, but they should take a good look at their own behaviour. Last week, a campaign to recruit "brides" for billionaires was launched in some big cities like Guangzhou and Shenzhen. Despite strict requirements, more than 2,800 women aged from 19 to 56 applied to take part in the wedding contest.
It's really shameful for the rich to show off their money by recruiting brides in this way, like ancient Chinese emperors selecting their consorts.
Recently a Shanxi coal-mine boss spent 70 million yuan (S$14 million) on his daughter's wedding, even paying celebrities to attend. Such ostentatious behaviour understandably angers many people.
Following a fatal accident in Singapore on May 12, in which a speeding Ferrari driven by a 31-year-old Chinese expatriate ran a red light and smashed head-on into a taxi, killing both the Singaporean driver and the Japanese passenger, there was an outpouring of anger against Chinese expats on local Singaporean Internet forums where they were described as "rich locusts".
There were actually three triggers for Singaporeans' animosity: a luxury car costing more than US$1 million (S$1.3 million), the driver breaking the rules, and the death of a Singaporean father of three children.
Chinese people, either as new immigrants or part of the foreign workforce, have contributed no less than people from other countries to the development of Singapore, and they don't deserve such hostility because of the reckless behaviour of one individual.
Nevertheless, we have to acknowledge that anti-Chinese sentiment overseas and terms such as "rich locusts" have not appeared overnight as a result of a single car accident. The animosity has developed over time because of the bad image "exported" by China's nouveau riche.
The past few years have seen the dramatic rise of China as a source of outbound tourists, and, according to the World Luxury Association, Chinese people spent US$7.2 billion overseas on luxuries during the week-long Spring Festival holiday this year.
It indicates that the country's newly rich are eager to flaunt their wealth by snapping up clothes, watches, jewellery and anything else with a luxury-brand logo. And wealthy Chinese have also been buying expensive properties overseas in recent years.
Some wealthy Chinese have been on hunting sprees in Africa and North America, spending huge amounts to buy quotas to kill as many wild animals as possible, and some rich Chinese students change their luxury cars whenever the mood strikes them.
Such behaviour has not only created a bad image of newly rich Chinese overseas that bears little relation to their fellow countrymen back home - including the 100 million that live in poverty - but it has also endangered ordinary Chinese people living or travelling abroad.
For instance, there have been growing concerns for the safety of Chinese students studying abroad after a number of violent incidents in which they had been targeted.
Early last month, two Chinese electrical-engineering students at the University of Southern California were shot dead in their car near their campus, in what police believe was a bungled carjacking.
In another incident, two Chinese international students were robbed by a gang of hooligans on a Sydney train late last month. One of the victims said a woman passenger who was sitting opposite them had said, "Rob them, they are Asian, they have got money."
When a fatal crash involving an expensive car and a reckless Chinese driver can trigger such loathing, it is time for China's newly rich to do some soul-searching about their lavish lifestyles and try to earn respect rather than buy it, both at home and abroad.
-China Daily/Asia News Network
