The Tokyo metropolitan government will soon establish a team of officials under the direct supervision of Gov. Shintaro Ishihara that will prepare to send a landing team to the Senkaku Islands, Ishihara has announced.
Effecting a landing on the uninhabited islets in the East China Sea is the first hurdle that must be cleared before the Tokyo metropolitan government's envisioned purchase of three of the five Senkaku islets can be realized, the governor said at a news conference Friday.
The team will be tasked with negotiating with the central government, as the Senkaku Islands, part of the city of Ishigaki, Okinawa Prefecture, are technically under the jurisdiction of the central government, Ishihara said.
Comprising seven staffers, including a director and two officials at the level of section chief, the Senkaku team will be launched on Tuesday as a group under the governor's direct control, he said.
The central government has prohibited anyone from landing on any of the Senkaku islets based on the need for "peaceful, stable maintenance and administration," apparently taking into account the fact that the islets are claimed by China and Taiwan.
The Senkaku team will call for the central government to issue permission to land on the islets for surveying purposes. It also will work to coordinate opinions among departments of the central and Tokyo governments relevant to achieving the goal of concluding a purchasing contract for the islets in April 2013, Ishihara said.
The outspoken governor noted, "If the central government fails to give permission, we are determined to prod it until it does."
Ishihara added, "At a time when the metropolitan government plans to purchase the islets with contributions from the public, it would be unreasonable for the central government to refuse permission to land on the islands."
Earlier in the day, Ishihara met with Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda at the Prime Minister's Office. They exchanged views about such matters as the planned joint use of U.S. Yokota Air Base by the U.S. military and Japan's public and private sectors, as well as Tokyo's plans to purchase the Senkaku islets, according to Ishihara.
"I told him the biggest barrier in handling the Senkaku Islands was the Foreign Ministry," Ishihara said.
Ishihara subsequently visited the headquarters of the Liberal Democratic Party where he met with party officials including his son Nobuteru, the secretary general of the LDP.
Concerning the purchase of the Senkaku islets, which are owned by a resident of Saitama Prefecture, the LDP told Ishihara it will submit a legislator-sponsored bill during the current Diet session calling for the central government to establish appropriate facilities on the islets and study effective ways of utilizing them.
