A UK-based musician, Mark Villarosa, is seeking assistance in the search for a relative who has been missing in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam since last Friday, April 20.
The London singer has launched a public appeal urging people to help share information to discover leads, attract media attention, and gain support from authorities in the search for his uncle, 47-year-old Edwin de la Cruz, also known as "Bong", according to ABS-CBN.
Talking with TuoiTreNews over the phone this morning, A Thanh, another relative of Bong's, said the missing man has remained unfound and the family has yet to receive any clue about him.
Thanh said in case someone finds Bong, they should keep the man at a certain place and then call Thanh, who will come to receive the man.
According to ABS-CBN, De la Cruz went missing when he was travelling with his mother and sister to visit a sibling in Cambodia that borders Vietnam. They were passing through HCMC to catch a flight back to Manila when Bong decided to have a walk and never returned.
Bong was last seen near a bus stop outside Hoang Hai Long 2 Hotel, District 1, HCMC, Vietnam, at 4 a.m. on Friday, April 20. He was wearing a blue "I Love Cambodia" T-shirt with blue shorts and sandals, ABS-CBN reported.
Bong is based in Makati, Philippines, where he lives with his wife, Emiliana, and their three children.
"Our family would like the support of our government, embassy and the media to assist us in working with local Vietnamese authorities in finding Edwin," ABS-CBN quoted Villarosa as saying.
On a Facebook page that has been set up to help spread the appeal to the word, Villarosa said, "Please help our family bring our missing persons page on Facebook to more prominence."
The family also revealed that Bong, due to a liver condition, suffers from "memory lapses" and may be "disoriented and confused",
Bong's sister, Catherine, who is based in Cambodia, is in Vietnam to facilitate the search for the man. Due to a lack of local knowledge and language skills, Catherine has been relying on the kindness of strangers to help with communication and information.
On an update in Facebook, she said: "With no language, I completely rely on the kindness of the Vietnamese staff at the hotel where I am staying&hellip; I will try the best that I can do to find my brother."
She also said that she has not heard any result from the police, the Philippine Consulate, and the newspaper ads.
"Today a notice of Edwin missing will be aired on one Vietnamese television station," she added.
