Regulations and structures to handle Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation+ (REDD) programmes, as well as building linkages with local communites and utilising local knowledge may be the key to the transboundary haze situation.
The 2nd Ministerial Steering Committee (MSC) Forum on Transboundary Haze last week decided that there is a need for regulations and incentives to be put in place by governments in order to induce the market to respond.
Innovative approaches and projects which involve government officials and community groups, corporations and landowners, as well as utilising local knowledge and building linkages with local communities were also important.
These solutions were in response to concerns by government leaders and officials from the MSC countries of Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand, who raised concerns that land and forest fires will recur in 2012, despite continuing efforts by the MSC, Asean and Indonesia.
Projects which will aid the haze situation should ideally look for collaborative solutions that would involve not only government officials at the national and local levels but also community groups, corporations and landowners.
These projects can also involve donors or private sector investors. Non-governmental organisations which were present at the forum highlighted examples of various projects, for instance, fire prevention goals were combined with other concerns including conservation issues, links to climate change, and the development of sustainable production and trade in agricultural and forest products.
Forum participants also drew attention to wider concerns from land fires, especially from peatlands.
Several participants emphasised the large impact from peatlands and urged that efforts be made to sustainably manage these areas.
The MSC Forum also noted the continued and growing issue of haze in the northern states of ASEAN.
As Thailand is the only state that belongs to both the northern and southern MSC, there were suggestions that the experiences of the southern MSC might be shared in addressing the northern Haze.
The forum was held by the Brunei Ministry of Development, as an extension of the inter-governmental MSC meeting, with Singapore's Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources and the Singapore Institute of International Affairs as strategic partners.
Singapore's Minister of the Environment and Water Resources, Dr Vivian Balakrishnan and ASEAN Secretariat's Head of the Environment Division, Dr Raman Letchumanan were present at the meeting.
Other organisations such as Conservation International, WWF Heart of Borneo, Burung Indonesia as well as experts and academics from National University of Singapore (NUS) and Universiti Brunei Darussalam were also present.
paullim@sph.com.sg
