WASHINGTON - US monitors issued an Indian Ocean-wide tsunami watch following a massive earthquake off the coast of Sumatra Wednesday but said it was not yet certain a giant wave had been generated.
"Earthquakes of this size have the potential to generate a widespread destructive tsunami that can affect coastlines across the entire Indian Ocean basin," the US Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said.
The US Geological Survey said an 8.6-magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Sumatra at 2:38 pm (0838 GMT, 4.38pm Singapore time) at a depth of 33 kilometers (20.5 miles). USGS had initially reported it as an 8.9-magnitude quake.
News reports said the tremor was felt in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, India and Bangladesh.
According to tips received, workers from 700 Beach Road and Shaw Tower were evacuated.
A worker at One Raffles Place who did not wish to be named, told AsiaOne that she felt giddy at work and only realised that it was due to the tremors after her colleague showed her Twitter feeds on the quake. They were not evacuated.
Miss Long Tianyun, 30, who works at Marina Bay Financial Centre, told AsiaOne that an announcement was made regarding tremors but no one was evacuated as well.
Ten minutes later, she saw people being evacuated from Asia Square, which is situated next to her office.
The tsunami warning center said it had not yet ascertained whether a tidal wave had been generated but that one was likely given the strength of the temblor, and advised local authorities to take "appropriate action."
Sri Lanka and India issued tsunami warnings while Thailand urged people on the Andaman coast, a popular tourist destination, to move to safety.
A Sri Lanka government statement said waves could hit the island's eastern coast by about 10:40 GMT and urged an orderly evacuation of the coastal strip. India on Wednesday issued a tsunami warning for the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, located in the Indian Ocean.
The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Service issued a red high-level warning for the islands, and also put out lower alerts for the coasts of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu states in the southeast of the country.
Thailand's National Disaster Warning Centre advised people in the area to move to higher places and stay as far away as possible from the sea. The quake swayed buildings as far away as Thailand's capital Bangkok.
Australian Bonnie Muddle, vacationing in the Thai resort island of Phuket at the time of the quake, said people were being evacuated from popular tourist areas including Krabi and Phang nag bay.
"Everyone is getting a little concerned over here," she told AFP.
Indonesia's disaster management agency said power was down in Aceh province and people were gathering on high ground as sirens warned of the danger.
"The electricity is down, there are traffic jams to access higher ground. Sirens and Koran recitals from mosques are everywhere," said Sutopo, spokesman for the agency.
Hundreds of office workers in the Indian city of Bangalore left their buildings while the Indian port of Chennai closed down because of the danger of a tsunami, the port said.
On December 26, 2004 a 9.2-magnitude earthquake off Sumatra generated a catastrophic tsunami that wrought devastation across southern Asia, killing an estimated 220,000 people.
Last year, a 9.0-magnitude earthquake caused a tsunami and nuclear disaster in Japan, killing some 19,000 people.
On Wednesday Japan's Meteorological Agency said that there was no risk of a tsunami affecting Japanese coasts.
Geoscience Australia, Canberra's geohazards agency, said there was no risk to Australia from the jolt. Taiwan and New Zealand also said the earthquake posed no threat to the respective countries.
