A lawmaker yesterday suggested the government look into reports that the United States is considering selling new fighter aircraft to Taiwan.
The military might as well explore the possibility of submitting a "letter of request" to Washington on the matter, said Lin Yu-fang, convener of the Legislature's National Defense and Foreign Affairs Committees.
In its reply to a letter to Senator John Cornyn, a Republican from Texas, the White House on Friday said it would seriously consider selling new US fighter jets to Taiwan to close a gap in air power with China.
Cornyn's proposal to sell new F-16C/D jets "warrants serious consideration given the growing military threat to Taiwan," said the reply letter signed by Robert Nabors, an Obama aide tasked with relations with Congress.
"This is a signal," Lin, a member of the ruling Kuomintang, said.
"Taiwan has long indicated its need for F-16C/D fighter jets, while the United States has called on the government not to submit a second letter of request, citing 'difficulties,'" Lin continued, adding that "now that the United States has said it will 'consider' the issue, it is tantamount to giving Taiwan a signal."
According to Lin, if the U.S. is willing to consider selling new aircraft to Taiwan while trying to re-establish its presence in Asia, such sales can naturally be regarded as part of its "returning to Asia" policy.
If U.S. President Barack Obama wins a second term, he would have fewer things to worry about, Lin said, but cautioned that he did not expect any results until two to three years after making a request.
"Negotiations may be time-consuming, and we have to wait till the completion of the F16A/B upgrade at the very least," he said, adding "arms sales differ from the buying and selling of commodities in general."
In an interview yesterday, Ministry of National Defense spokesman Lo Shao-ho said all his ministry welcomes any proposals dealing with upgrading Taiwan's defense capabilities.
Under US law, the administration is required to provide for the self-defense of Taiwan, a self-governing democracy that China claims as a renegade province. The Obama administration authorized a US$5.85 billion upgrade of Taiwan's aging fighter jets in September.
The deal drew immediate criticism from Obama's Republican rivals, who argued that the sale of brand-new jets, while likely to upset Beijing, would better defend Taiwan from a rising China as well as create U.S. manufacturing jobs.
The Obama administration argued at the time that an upgrade rather than sale of new planes would more immediately address Taiwan's military needs.
But the letter to Cornyn said: "We are mindful of and share your concerns about Taiwan's growing shortfall in fighter aircraft as (its existing) F-5s are retired from service and notwithstanding the upgrade of the F-16A/Bs."
Cornyn had pressured the administration by placing a hold - a legislative move under which a senator can block a nomination - on Mark Lippert, whom Obama named to be the assistant secretary of defense in charge of Asia.
Cornyn announced that he was lifting his hold on Lippert but would still press the administration until it sells new aircraft to Taiwan.
"I commend the administration for recognizing that our friend and ally Taiwan's Air Force is woefully undersized and outgunned by communist China," he said in a statement.
China regularly protests any US arms packages for Taiwan, but its reaction to the September deal was comparatively muted, with US officials seeing little concrete retaliation such as the cancellation of visits. US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner are heading to Beijing next week for key annual talks between the United States and China.
