VIETNAM - Twenty people who attacked law enforcement officers in a forced land eviction (land withdrawal) in Hung Yen Province have been detained, local authorities reported.
They were arrested yesterday in Van Giang District after using stones and bottles of petrol to attack the local police force, which helped keep order in the forced removal by local authorities to withdraw 5.8 hectares of land from 166 households, said Bui Huy Thanh, chief of the Secretariat of the provincial People's Committee.
Thanh said that the police are investigating those who had organized the resistance against law enforcement officers.
He also said that no policemen or residents were injured in the attack.
The 166 households, which are among the 1,720 households to be affected by the project to build the Van Giang Commercial and Service Urban Area, were forced to withdraw from their land since they had not agreed to hand over their land to the investor, although the project was approved by the Prime Minister in 2004, Thanh explained.
The families did not agree to accept the rate of compensation of VND48 million (S$2,860) per hectare, since they considered the sum too low.
Meanwhile, 1,554 other households have received compensation and given up their land, making up a total of 132.45 hectares, to the investor, Viet Hung Urban Investment and Development Company, Thanh added.
According to Thanh the VND48 million compensation rate is the highest to ever be applied in the province.
In addition, the investor has paid VND35,000 per square meters as a tip for those households who handed their land over to the project quickly, he said.
On the day of the attack, many local residents lingered in the area where their land had been withdrawn until the late evening.
Talking with Tuoi Tre, Dang Van Du, a farmer who had his land reclaimed yesterday, said, "My family was allocated 0.25 hectares of farming land. We have grown decorative plants on the land at a cost of VND120-130 million ($6,250). Now the land has been leveled."
"We do not agree with the rate of compensation."
Meanwhile, Thanh said, "The Government's Inspectorate has worked with the district authorities for three months over the withdrawal of land for the project. The reason those families did not agree to hand their land over to the project was not because of the low compensation rate but because they proposed that the project not be implemented there, but such a proposal is not acceptable."
