SYDNEY - A group of Chinese asylum seekers rescued from a stricken yacht by Australian officials will abandon their quest to sail to New Zealand, a supporter who has spoken to two of them said Wednesday.
The 10 Chinese nationals, most of whom are believed to be from the outlawed Falungong movement, intended to seek asylum in Australia, a spokesman for the spiritual movement, William Luo, told AFP.
Luo said he had spoken by telephone to two members of the group who had told him they would abandon their bid to reach New Zealand after arriving in the northern city of Darwin this week.
"They told me they don't have much choice now and they will stay in Darwin," he said. One of the group, Wu Xiao Hong, had told him: "We all will apply (for asylum)."
The group, which includes a family with two children aged six and eight, were helped by Australian authorities to reach Darwin after sending a distress signal from their yacht.
Prime Minister Julia Gillard had said Tuesday she had no power to stop them from pressing on with their journey to New Zealand but authorities from the two nations said they would be were extremely concerned for the group's safety if they attempted the hazardous voyage.
Luo said the group had initially intended to go to New Zealand to seek asylum because they knew they faced mandatory detention in Australia while their claims for refugee status were assessed.
He said they had been terrified of being locked up after bad experiences in China but had changed their minds after the treatment they had received at the hands of Australian officials.
"They see in Australia it's so different," he said.
The group reportedly set off from Malaysia a month ago and called for help in Australian waters after exhausting their fuel and supplies.
The group has until Saturday, when their temporary Australian visas expire, to decide whether they want to proceed with the journey of some 2,775 nautical miles to New Zealand's Auckland Harbour.
Falungong - a movement loosely based on Buddhist, Taoist and Confucian philosophies - enjoyed growing popularity among the Chinese in the 1990s but China outlawed the movement as an "evil cult" in 1999.
The group says its members are tortured for their beliefs.
