JAPAN - The contents of confidential documents related to a program to promote the export of Japanese agricultural products to China is believed to have been leaked to a Chinese diplomat suspected of engaging in espionage, The Yomiuri Shimbun has learned.
The program was led by Senior Vice Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Minister Nobutaka Tsutsui.
The diplomat, who is first secretary of the Chinese Embassy in Tokyo, visited Tsutsui's office and became involved in the program, introducing Chinese enterprises to Japan, sources close to the matter said.
The diplomat left Japan last week despite being asked by the Metropolitan Police Department's Public Security Bureau to appear for questioning.
The bureau is interested in the case because it believes the diplomat, who is also suspected of violating the Alien Registration Law, may have been involved in intelligence gathering activities.
The program was organized by the Tokyo-based Promotion Association of Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries &amp; Foods Exporting to China to introduce and sell Japanese agricultural and marine products at an exhibition facility in Beijing.
By establishing a tie-up with a Chinese state-owned enterprise, the program aims to provide a foothold for Japanese agricultural organizations and businesses seeking to make forays into the Chinese market.
Tsutsui himself had visited China to exchange a memorandum with a Chinese state-owned company.
According to association documents and sources close to the matter, a former secretary of a Diet member in agricultural minister Michihiko Kano's group was responsible for administrative work for the program.
Kano then appointed the secretary to ministry adviser in December 2010, to engage in negotiations with the Chinese side for the program.
When the association was created in July 2011, the secretary resigned as adviser and became the association's representative director.
In the course of his duties promoting the program, the representative director handled at least 30 of the ministry's internal documents, some of which have the words "handle with care" on them.
Some of the documents were classified as "level 3" and "level 2," the highest and second-highest levels of confidentiality, respectively, for government and ministry documents.
Among them were documents about the outlook for rice supply and demand after the outbreak of the crisis at Tokyo Electric Power Co.'s Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power plant.
The representative director said he obtained the documents from Tsutsui and other officials.
A confidential information leak by government employees constitutes a violation of the National Civil Service Law.
No penalties are stipulated for senior vice ministers, though the leak violates the ministers' code of conduct.
The Chinese diplomat frequently visited the office of the Kano group's Diet member, which the association's representative director used as his base.
"The Chinese diplomat was shown some documents by the representative director and learned of their contents from him," a source close to the matter said.
The idea for the program emerged in August 2010 at a study group meeting among Democratic Party of Japan members, established by Tsutsui.
However, the group was created in part at the diplomat's urging.
The diplomat attended at least two of the five meetings.
He reportedly said, "The Japanese side should cooperate with Chinese enterprises" and introduced a state-owned enterprise as a counterpart.
The scheduled opening of the exhibition facility in Beijing in May 2011 was repeatedly postponed for various reasons, including a disagreement over quarantine conditions for Japanese goods.
Senior ministry officials often saw the diplomat visiting Tsutsui's office to deal with the problem.
However, the embassy's commerce department is responsible for the program, not the diplomat, who belonged to the economics department.
"I met with the diplomat only once in my office. He didn't seem like a spy to me," Tsutsui said.
"I passed on some information, only verbally, to the association's representative director. I didn't give him any documents."
The representative director said he never showed any documents to the diplomat.
