KATMANDU - Govinda Prasad Mainali, the Nepalese man who returned to his home country Saturday after serving 15 years in a Japanese prison, was reunited with his mother, who told him, "You've dealt with hardship so well," according to sources close to him.
About 50 people, including a Hindu priest and relatives, welcomed Mainali, 45, at his home in Katmandu. He smiled and waved to Japanese reporters over the railing of a balcony, saying in Japanese: "I'm too happy for words. Thank you all."
Mainali, who was freed after the Tokyo High Court's decision to grant him a retrial and suspend his life sentence over the murder of an employee of Tokyo Electric Power Co., arrived at Tribhuvan International Airport in Katmandu at 12:15 p.m. local time Saturday.
When he arrived in the airport lobby, he touched the floor to confirm his return to his home country, and then smiled while holding his hands above his head.
Mainali was reunited with his 79-year-old mother Chandrakala, who came to greet him although she was suffering from severe asthma. Mainali welcomed her with open arms and said, "My respected mother." Chandrakala touched her son's cheeks and they hugged each other.
Then Chandrakala placed a necklace made of rosemary around her son's neck. It had been seven years since Chandrakala saw her son in prison.
After the reunion at the airport, Mainali went to his house, which is located about 15 minutes away from the city center by car. He built the house mainly with money he earned in Japan but was arrested in 1997, shortly before its completion. Mainali's brother Indra, 54, paid the remaining construction costs. Chandrakala, Mainali's wife, Radha, and their two daughters have lived in the house since then.
About 100 reporters, including people from local and Japanese media, attended a press conference held in the city at 5 p.m. Mainali read a statement in Nepalese that said: "I've come to live peacefully in my home country after many long and tense years. I really want to thank everyone who supported my family."
He continued by saying he was disappointed that he was imprisoned on a false accusation for 15 years and the Nepalese government had not shown interest in his case.
Mainali also calmly said he was too happy for words and filled with joy for being able to return to Nepal for the first time in 18 years. He commented on how he felt the spiritual atmosphere of long-forgotten Nepal.
However, he refused to talk about the case and trial, saying in a forceful tone: "I can't talk [about the case] as the trial isn't over yet. I believe I'll be acquitted at the retrial."
