Jeffrey Manuel Rawis, a journalist from the Antara news agency who was questioned on Monday as a witness in the bribery case centering on the SEA Games athletes' village construction, claims he never accepted any bribes on behalf of suspect Angelina Sondakh.
"I had nothing to do with the project," Jeffrey said after the questioning session at the Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) building.
The KPK is investigating his alleged role in the case after Mindo "Rosa" Rosalina Manulang--former subordinate of graft convict Muhammad Nazaruddin--testified in court that Jeffrey had accepted Rp 5 billion (US$680,058) from her to be given to Angelina to secure the project for PT Duta Graha Indah.
Rosa said she ordered Luthfi, a driver at Nazaruddin's company Permai Group, to bring the money to the House of Representatives' compound where Luthfi gave the money to Jeffrey.
Rosa regarded Jeffrey as "Angelina's staff".
Jeffrey admitted that he did indeed know Angelina, saying that it was "because I once was stationed at the House." Jeffrey, the editor at Antara's Riau office previously worked as a reporter assigned to cover the House.
"Investigators asked me whether I knew Mindo [Rosa] Rosalina Manulang; I told them I did not. I also do not know Yulianis," he said in his answer to media who asked why his name, among the many journalists stationed at the House, was mentioned at trial.
He also denied Rosa's claims about his role as money courier for Angelina.
Both Nazaruddin and Angelina sat on the House's budget committee at the time of the case.
Nazaruddin was a Democratic Party treasurer, while Angelina was one of the party's lawmaker on the House's sports and education commission.
Nazaruddin, who was sent to jail for four years and ten months in April, ran numerous businesses under the Permai Group holding company which he used as proxies to bid for government projects.
He later subcontracted the projects to bigger companies in exchange for bribes.
Jeffrey added that he knew Angelina also because he was "family" of Angelina.
Yet, Lucky Sondakh, Angelina's father who came to the KPK detention block to see her on Monday, claimed not to know Jeffrey.
Jeffrey refuted this, insisting that he and Angelina were family.
"He [Lucky] can make such a statement, but we are family. Family does not necessarily mean we are blood relations," Jeffrey said.
