BEIJING - Chen Guangcheng has said he is not seeking US asylum and only wants to leave China for "a few months' rest", according to a supporter who helped the blind legal activist flee house arrest.
Guo Yushan, who was briefly detained for his role in Chen's audacious escape, said the activist told him by telephone late Thursday that US officials had not pressured him to leave the embassy, where he took refuge for six days.
"Guangcheng never said to the media that he wanted political asylum. He only said that he wanted to go to the US to rest for a few months," Guo said in a post on his microblog that was later deleted, apparently by censors.
"He has a letter of invitation from the New York University, and he is a free person. He wants to go to the US for travel for a while and then come back. Therefore, this is not a change of mind," Guo added.
Chen fled his home in the eastern province of Shandong on April 22, and later recorded a video appeal to Premier Wen Jiabao in which he said he and his family had been subjected to repeated abuses at the hands of local authorities.
He sought refuge at the US embassy, but on Wednesday US officials announced he had left the embassy for a hospital to receive treatment and be reunited with his family, after Chinese authorities agreed to allow him to relocate to a safe place.
In subsequent telephone interviews, Chen said he had felt pressured to leave the US embassy, and had been told that his wife and daughter would have to return to Shandong if he did not do so.
But Guo, in his account of his conversation with Chen, said the 40-year-old campaigner told him he had "walked out of the embassy on his own free will", and expressed gratitude to the US ambassador and to Hillary Clinton.
The US Secretary of State, a vocal critic of Chen's treatment in the past, is currently in Beijing for high-level talks with Chinese officials that have been overshadowed by the growing row over the activist.
Explaining Chen's earlier remarks, Guo said that during Chen's first day in the hospital, "some unpleasant things happened, bringing some inconvenience and misery to him and his family, making them feel anxious and nervous".
These included hearing from his wife about earlier threats to her from officials in Shandong, Guo said.
Chen's wife was reportedly tied to a chair and beaten after her husband's escape, which made headlines the world over and has caused major embarrassment for the Chinese government.
