YANGON - Aung San Suu Kyi's supporters in Myanmar were left hoping the nation's slow Internet would let them watch her Nobel prize acceptance speech online Saturday, with no indication state TV would show it.
Many in Myanmar, which is emerging from decades of army-rule, have backed Suu Kyi on her remarkable journey from prisoner to politician and the speech to accept the Nobel Peace Prize is seen as a vindication of years of democracy struggle.
Suu Kyi was under house arrest when the Oslo-based Nobel committee gave her the accolade in 1991, pushing her and Myanmar's pro-democracy fight against the country's brutal military onto the world stage.
There were no official events planned to mark the speech in a nation where the army still holds a quarter of parliamentary seats, but her supporters were hoping the country's slow internet would not prevent live viewing.
A member of parliament from Suu Kyi National League for Democracy party said the Oslo lecture, scheduled for 1100 GMT, would lift Myanmar from its status as an international pariah to a "dignified country".
"As students we pressed for Daw Aung San Suu Kyi to go and receive the Nobel prize," MP Phyo Min Thein, a former student leader, told AFP in Yangon, addding he would try watch the webcast.
"I hope the situation in which we see Daw Aung San Suu Kyi giving a speech on world stage will give our country more pride."
As the ceremony drew near Zaw Moe Win, 43, a lecturer at Dawei University in the south of the country welcomed a speech two decades in the making.
"I want to watch it as it will show a citizen of my country being respected by many people. The significant thing is that she is going to receive it 21 years after it was actually awarded," she said, adding she was worried about internet access.
Suu Kyi's visit to Oslo after years of house arrest is itself testimony to the tentative political change in Myanmar, where a quasi-civilian government has introduced a series a reforms.
Former general President Thein Sein has freed hundreds of political prisoners, welcomed Suu Kyi's party back into mainstream politics, and signed ceasefires with ethnic rebel groups, leading Western nations to ease sanctions.
When she arrived in Oslo on Friday, Suu Kyi warned that "we're certainly not at the end of the road. By no means. We are just starting out."
Suu Kyi's trip has been clouded by ethnic strife at home, where regional clashes between Buddhists and Muslim Rohingya have claimed dozens of lives and displaced more than 30,000 people.
