JAKARTA - There is the possibility that subsidized fuel prices might increase by July, energy policy observer Kurtubi said on Sunday.
The House of Representatives passed early Saturday the 2012 revised state budget, which included the insertion of Article 7, Clause 6a.
This addition allows the government to increase the prices of subsidized fuel prices if the Indonesian Crude Price (ICP) benchmark price is 15 per cent higher than assumed in the state budget in the past six months.
If January was counted as part of that time frame, then it means that prices could be up by July, Kurtubi said.
"If it is the six-month time period, including January; then fuel prices will increase by late June or early July. But that depends on global conditions for oil markets," Kurtubi told kompas.com on Sunday.
He said that ICP reached US$128 (S$161) per barrel in March, much higher from the US$105 assumed in the state budget.
He added that fuel prices could go up even higher depending on conditions in the Middle East, particularly in the situation involving Iran and the Hormuz Strait.
Because of the uncertainty that this situation has caused, Kurtubi added, it was understandable why fuel prices had lately been on the rise.
On the other hand, Kurtubi said that prices could decrease if the Iran situation calmed down. This would mean that the 15 per cent threshold might not be breached.
It would also mean that fuel prices may not go up by July.
"The way things are going, it can be guaranteed that fuel prices will go up by July 1.
That is, unless the situation in the Hormuz Strait changes. If there is peace and stability there by May or June, then the 15 per cent threshold won't be breached," Kurtubi said.
He also asked the government to clarify the method in which it counted the state budget's six-month time frame. Some start that countdown from April while others began counting from last year.
"There are multiple interpretations of government policy at work here."
Energy and Mineral Resources Deputy Minister Widjajono Partowidagdo had previously said that there was no way that fuel prices could go up by April 1 as the government had planned.
However, he said that fuel prices could be up by May.
