FUKUSHIMA--Despite the arrival of mountain-climbing season, many mountains in Fukushima Prefecture remain closed due to high radiation levels, causing frustration to local governments and affected businesses.
While people will be allowed to climb mountains with relatively low radiation levels, local governments and climbing associations are taking such measures as posting radiation data to ease climbers' concerns.
In a normal year, about 400 people would climb Mt. Onigajo in Iwaki in the prefecture on the first day of the climbing season.
However, the outbreak of the crisis at the Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power plant has put an end to this popular hike.
In April, employees of Iwaki-no-sato Onigajo, a hotel at the foot of the mountain, decontaminated the entrance to the hiking path by spraying it with high-pressure water.
However, a few weeks later, the radiation level returned to what it was before decontamination work. The radiation level at the peak of the mountain remains relatively high, at 2.1 microsieverts per hour.
Concerned for climbers' safety, the Iwaki municipal government decided not to open the mountain this year.
"It's frustrating that we cannot determine whether it's safe to climb, as nobody knows the radiation level before the March 11, 2011, disaster," said a hotel official.
The number of climbers of Mt. Adatara in Nihonmatsu dropped from 200,000 before the crisis to 60,000 last year.
This year, the mountain will open Sunday. According to the city, the radiation level at the mountain's peak was 0.04 microsieverts per hour, which poses no health risks.
An official of the city government's tourism section said, "Climbers ask us about the radiation level, but they are relieved after we tell them."
Some local residents have made efforts to release radiation data to reassure concerned climbers.
Local climbing association Megamiyama-o-aisuru-kai measured radiation levels at Mt. Megami, which straddles Kawamata and Date, in April. As the result was 0.5 microsieverts per hour, it decided to open the mountain for the first time in two years.
However, as the level is still higher than the 0.23 microsieverts recorded at ground level in May, the group asked all primary and middle schools to refrain from climbing this year.
Kawamata's primary and middle school students climbed the mountain every year before the disaster.
"I hope children will be able to climb the mountain next year," said Noboru Hasunuma, 78, the group's leader.
Hinoemata, a village at the entrance to Oze National Park, about 150 kilometers west of the Fukushima plant, asked five mountain lodges in the park to measure radiation levels.
It posted the data on its website ahead of the start of the climbing season next Tuesday.
However, many climbers are still concerned about radiation.
"I heard branches with leaves as well as fallen leaves are contaminated with high levels of radiation," said a 58-year-old from Fukushima city who climbed Mt. Utsumine in Koriyama after it opened for the first time in two years. "My grandson wanted to climb a mountain, but I didn't take him with me."
