WAHTHEINKHA, Myanmar - It has almost no electricity and just one paved road, but on Sunday a village in rural Myanmar was in the global spotlight as it hosted Aung San Suu Kyi's historic bid to enter parliament.
Soon after dawn, a large crowd of foreign and local media gathered in front of a house in Wahtheinkha - about two hours' drive from Yangon - the village where the opposition leader and democracy champion spent the night.
Local people, many dressed for the occasion in vibrant red and blue traditional ethnic Karen clothing, also waited for a glimpse of the country's most famous former political prisoner.
Only an escaped pig disturbed the early morning hush, racing along the dirt road chased by a pack of neighbourhood dogs, as dozens of reporters, cameramen and photographers waited for "The Lady", as she is known here, to emerge.
"I'm happy that many foreigners are here," farmer Mya Thaung, 40, said of the spectacle.
"We have seen foreigners here before but nothing like today."
Many journalists were welcomed into people's modest homes over the weekend, unpacking their hi-tech equipment into houses that have only sparse access to power.
Suu Kyi travelled by car from one polling station to another through Kawhmu constituency, flanked by security on motorbikes and trailed by members of her National League for Democracy party and journalists in dozens of vehicles.
Despite the scorching tropical sun, villagers lined the streets, smiling and waving energetically as Suu Kyi's convoy passed through the dusty countryside.
"I am so happy. I cannot describe how happy I am," Htay Htay Oo told AFP when asked what she felt at seeing the international press as they swept through.
But others were more nonchalant about the glare of the media spotlight.
Tin Zaw Win said foreigners were not unheard of in the countryside and that aid agencies sometimes visited a local youth training centre.
"We have seen them before," he said.
There were a few moments of friction as the large number of journalists jostled for a vantage point to see the democracy icon as she toured the area.
In one incident journalists strayed inside a polling station grounds - prohibited under election rules - and provoked a stern outburst from Suu Kyi.
"That's unlawful," said the democracy icon. "Please go out."
But the 66-year-old showed genuine concern when a photographer accidentally fell into a ditch as she was escorted to her car across a small bridge.
Suu Kyi stopped in her tracks and asked him if he was OK.
"You've bruised your arm," she said, looking down at the photographer, who looked up, picked up his camera and asked to take her picture.
Until last year, prominent domestic media coverage of Suu Kyi was almost unheard of and people who spoke to reporters were taking a real risk.
But, reflecting the new mood of political openness, many voters dared to voice their affection for the Nobel peace laureate.
"I'm so excited and also very happy," said voter San Myint.
"I've been waiting for this for a long time. I couldn't sleep last night," she added.
