A suprapartisan bill calls for the establishment of a council that will allow the government and nuclear regulatory bodies to work together closely not only during times of emergency, but at all other times.
The bill, drawn up by the ruling Democratic Party of Japan, and the opposition Liberal Democratic Party and New Komeito, envisions an organization prepared to handle nuclear crises and counter radiation contamination.
According to the bill, which was unveiled Monday, five experts will be appointed to a planned nuclear regulatory commission, including a chairperson who would be given a free hand in making decisions whenever a nuclear crisis occurs. The chairperson will join the new council.
The prime minister will act as director general of the council, while the chief cabinet secretary and the environment minister will serve as deputy chiefs.
The council is intended primarily to prepare for nuclear accidents, such as by calling on local governments to create evacuation plans and conduct emergency drills. It is also expected to work out plans to distribute iodine to people to protect their health during a nuclear crisis.
To regulate nuclear reactors, the bill wants the planned nuclear regulatory commission to be given greater freedom to act on its own initiative. The body is expected to be established as the so-called Article 3 committee, which is set up based on Article 3 of the National Government Organization Law and has an authority equivalent to that of a government agency.
As the five commission members may have trouble reaching unanimous agreements during a nuclear crisis, the onus of making final decisions will fall mainly on the body's chairperson.
According to the bill, the prime minister will be given the authority to issue instructions to parties concerned when an emergency occurs.
These instructions may include ordering the Self-Defense Forces and other entities to inject water into a nuclear reactor, allowing a utility to withdraw its employees from the accident site, and permitting the release of water contaminated with low-level radiation into the ocean.
The bill calls on the nuclear regulatory commission to deal with facilities affected by a nuclear crisis, but seeks flexible responses and greater intervention by the government.
Meanwhile, operations of the Japan Nuclear Energy Safety Organization, an independent administrative body that inspects nuclear facilities and takes other safety measures, will be integrated into those handled by a planned nuclear regulatory agency, according to the bill. The agency is expected to be set up as the secretariat of the nuclear regulatory commission.
The bill indicates that officials who move to the regulatory agency from the Economy, Trade and Industry Ministry and other government bodies will not be allowed, in principle, to return to the places where they originally worked.
The three parties plan to officially approve the bill soon and then submit it to the Diet. It is expected to be passed during the current Diet session.
In late January, the government submitted legislation to establish the nuclear regulatory agency as an external body under the Environment Ministry. However, the LDP and Komeito opposed the bill, saying the agency was not sufficiently independent. In April, the opposition parties submitted their own bill to create a nuclear regulatory committee that would have greater independence.
