Sons and daughters of prominent politicians are back in the spotlight as they are striving to win parliamentary seats in next week's elections based on their own identities.
They were apparently given a head start over their competitors as they secured a measure of voter recognition thanks to their family backgrounds. They have had to tide over tough challenges, however, growing out from under the shadow of their fathers and cultivating their own distinct images.
Among them is Choi Jae-whan, running as an independent in Yeonje district in Busan. His father is Choi Hyung-woo, who was regarded as a kingpin during former President Kim Young-sam's term from 1993-1998 and elected as lawmaker for six terms.
"After failing in the 2008 elections, I tried to figure out what the reason was. In retrospect, I had great expectations for the coattail effect and didn't do much for my constituency. I regretted that," Choi told The Korea Herald.
The electoral defeat served as a sobering lesson that what matters most is who he is, not the illustrious political pedigree of his family, he said.
"For the last four years, I have lived here, worked hard for my constituency and reached out to meet the residents face-to face. They now recognize me for myself, not as my father's son," he said.
"We should conscientiously face challenges and competition in the political scene and be with people here with a future-oriented policy vision. That is the way we can win their trust."
Of all constituencies that have candidates from families of renowned politicians, Jung district in central Seoul has drawn particular attention with sons of two political heavyweights vying to represent it.
For the district, the ruling Saenuri Party fielded Chung Jin-suk, the son of former six-term lawmaker Jung Seok-mo, while the main opposition Democratic United Party put up Chyung Ho-joon, a son of former five-term lawmaker Chyung Dai-chul.
Both have prepared for the poll based on the belief that their own political identities and policy visions can move the hearts of voters tired of seeing politicians using the election as a stepping stone on their way up the political hierarchy.
"We are tired of 'migrant politicians' who just come here and only seek the way higher up the political pecking order," said Kim Mi-yeon, a 45-year-old resident in the district. "We don't look at who their fathers are, but what fresh changes they can bring about here."
Mindful of such voters' sentiment, Chung, who himself is a veteran, three-term lawmaker has sought to cultivate an image of a "hard worker" striving to stay abreast of the times with fresh ideas to improve his constituency.
"It is true that, of course, my father's example as a politician gave me a considerable guidance and lessons. But the times are changing and we need to make constant efforts to keep up with the new era," said Chung.
"What matters is to listen attentively to the voices of residents here and try to find out what direction they want to go."
Chyung Ho-joon, former Cheong Wa Dae official under former President Roh Moo-hyun, is aspiring to become the country's first "third-generation lawmaker." His grandfather Chyung Il-hyung was an eight-term lawmaker while his father Chyung Dai-chul was a five-term legislator.
From the positive standpoint, the offspring of established politicians can gain much grooming from early on, although in the worst case, they could miss a chance to stand on their own while carelessly riding on their fathers' success, experts said.
"Politics is a special, professional realm, which requires various qualifications including integrity, personal excellence and expertise. What they have seen and heard from their parents can form a crucial part of their training before entering politics," said Yoon Pyung-joong, a political philosophy professor at Hanshin University.
"Rather than passively accepting what they have learned from their families, they can take out what is good and translate that into their political finesse. This can somehow expedite their internal growth as a politician in this way."
Some pointed out that voters can make more efforts to weed out unviable candidates only seeking to leverage their fathers' political assets.
"They should be politically independent. We should be able to discern candidates trying to rely heavily on their family backgrounds without any experience, personal achievement and role in the community," said Choi Young-jin, a political science professor at Chung-Ang University.
Other candidates with the prominent pedigree include Kim Young-ho running in Seodaemun-B constituency on the DUP ticket; Kim Sung-dong in Mapo-B constituency under the Saenuri banner; and Lee Jae-han in a district in North Chungcheong Province.
Kim Young-ho's father is Kim Sang-hyun, who was elected to the National Assembly for six terms. Kim Sung-dong's father is Kim Su-han, a former parliamentary speaker, while Lee's father is current five-term lawmaker Lee Yong-hee of the DUP.
Saenuri candidate Yoo Il-ho running in Songpa-B district in Seoul is the son of Yoo Chi-song, former four-term lawmaker who ran in a presidential election in 1981 as a candidate of the now-defunct Democratic Korea Party.
