SEOUL - The government and businesses have started their annual "Cool Biz" dress campaign.
Bureaucrats show up without jackets to save energy during summer, while executives and office workers dress casually to enable air conditioners to be turned down.
Seoul Metropolitan Government is going even further, allowing public servants to wear shorts and sandals to work in the most extreme form of the drive.
The new dress code plan is attracting mixed reactions from citizens.
"I totally agree with Seoul's idea. The civil workers will be able to provide better service if the work environment is cooler," Park Go-woon, a Seoul citizen, said.
She praised the city government's practical attitude.
Some are worried that civil workers' casual dress could give a sense of carelessness in their work.
"The purpose of the campaign seems good, however some citizens might be uncomfortable with civil servants being dressed too casually," said a 28-year-old female surnamed Han.
The Metropolitan Government launched the campaign last Friday.
In an effort to bolster the movement, the city will even hold a fashion show on Tuesday, marking World Environment Day.
Seoul Mayor Park Won-soon will even walk down the catwalk at the event.
The city will also sign a memorandum of understanding with district governments, civic groups and private firms to encourage people to join the effort to reduce energy consumption.
Some fashion-sensitive citizens are against the policy for another reason.
"I do not think it would be effective. Who in the world can go to work wearing shorts and flip-flops. And I cannot picture a man wearing a suit and flip-flops; they are mismatched," said Lee Gyeongah, a 26-year-old office worker.
The city said Cool Biz is just a recommendation, not a compulsory order.
Those civil servants who should deal with citizens in person or who need to meet people in a business situation are exempt from the recommendation.
"Employees used to wear a suit in hot summer days. Compared to that there have been some significant changes in clothing styles. Some are even wearing a polo shirt today," said Ryu Kyung-gi, spokesperson for the municipal government.
The city said the office temperature could be reduced by 1 to 2 degrees Celsius during the city's movement, which will last through August.
Cheong Wa Dae has also started a similar campaign last month.
President Lee Myung-bak and all senior presidential secretaries attended a weekly meeting in short sleeves to save energy.
"It is important not only to reduce the indoor temperature in general, but also to cool yourself," President Lee said.
A thermal power plant in Incheon, which supplies a fifth of the electricity supplied to regions around Seoul, was shut down due to mechanical faults for five hours last Tuesday.
Two reactors, one at Uljin and another at Gori nuclear power plant, have also been shut down for mechanical problems.
Massive power outages last September caused more than 60 billion won, or S$65.5 million, in damage affecting 6 million houses.
