BEIJING - A woman pretending to be a "princeling" - a term referring to children of prominent Chinese officials - conned 26 Olympic medallists and celebrities in China of about 60 million yuan (S$12 million) by "selling" them houses and cars, the Chinese media reported yesterday.
Wang Di, 31, told her famous victims that she could help them purchase the properties and cars for below market price, The Global Times said.
Her alleged victims include Olympic medallists, such as gymnasts Yang Wei, Yang Yun, Zou Kai and Feng Zhe, and swimming star Luo Xuejuan.
Television actress Wang Likun and 22 other celebrities were also defrauded, The South China Morning Post said.
Police said Wang Di admitted to splitting the spoils with her boyfriend, gymnast Xiao Qin, who was a gold medallist at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, the Beijing Times said.
Her hearings began on Tuesday, at the Beijing Municipal No. 2 Intermediate People's Court.
Wang Di, who is from Dalian, had pretended to be the daughter of a former deputy governor of Liaoning, the Beijing- based Legal Evening News said.
The newspaper said that Wang Di was charged with swindling 58 million yuan and HK$2.28 million (S$375,000) from the victims. More than 34 million yuan has not been returned.
Gymnast Xiao told the Chinese media in 2009 that he planned to marry her, said the Chengdu Commercial Daily.
Xiao is currently training for the London Olympics next month, and it is unclear if he has been implicated.
He could not be reached for comment, but his mother told the Chengdu paper that her son was innocent.
"How can you trust a defendant? I can tell you only that what (Wang Di) said is not a fact," his mother told the paper.
"If my son was involved in the swindling case, why have (the authorities) allowed him to take part in training?"
Wang, who was formerly married to a soccer player in Dalian, gained entry to the lofty circle of elite athletes and celebrities through her former husband.
When they divorced in 2008, she moved to Beijing, where she met Yang Yun, the wife of Yang Wei, the Beijing Times said.
Wang rented a few luxury apartments in Beijing and allegedly convinced Yang Yun that she owned the flats and was willing to sell them for a low price.
She acted the part of an elite "princeling" with well-connected parents well, dazzling her victims with her expensive lifestyle, which included driving an Audi car and carrying designer handbags, the South China Morning Post reported yesterday.
Yang Yun then introduced her husband and other celebrities to Wang. However, according to Chinese paper Legal Evening News, Wang's parents were retirees.
From 2008 till her arrest in March last year, her victims thought that they were buying homes and cars from her, which none of them received.
One of her victims was also charged on Tuesday for being an accomplice.
Ms Zhu Shuangshuang - an agent for Yang Yun, Yang Wei and Wang Likun - allegedly cooperated with Wang Di in scamming other victims after having discovered that she had been swindled, in order to recoup her own losses of 3.8 million yuan (S$762,000).
