BEIJING - Blind lawyer Chen Guangcheng is part of a new generation of Chinese activists whose use of modern communications tools including social media is posing an unprecedented challenge for the government.
A quarter of a century ago, leaders of the "Beijing Spring" of 1989 including Wang Dan, Chai Ling and Wuer Kaixi could do little more than yell their message through megaphones in Tiananmen Square.
But on Thursday, Chen, a crusading lawyer who escaped house arrest and sought sanctuary in the US embassy in Beijing, used his mobile phone to speak directly to the US Congress in Washington.
Lawmakers listened intently to his testimony in an astonishing call broadcast on the phone's speaker to a wood-paneled room in a congressional building on Capitol Hill, as stunned witnesses and reporters looked on.
"It is unprecedented," said professor Willy Lam from the Chinese University of Hong Kong. "There will be more such attempts by dissidents to appeal to politicians as well as parliamentarians not only in the US but also in Europe".
Last week, after news of Chen's dramatic escape filtered out, the campaigning lawyer posted a 15-minute video online in which he appealed to Premier Wen Jiabao to guarantee his family's safety.
The video, which went on YouTube and was seen worldwide, was the first time an activist had made such a direct appeal to the top leadership, said Lam, describing the impact of the defiant gesture as "very big".
Chen is emblematic of an "extremely tech savvy and media savvy core grouping of Chinese human right defenders (who are)... becoming increasingly efficient at getting their message across," said Human Rights Watch's Phelim Kine.
"In a sense this is Chinese activism 2.0," he said.
Chinese artist and dissident Ai Weiwei, a prolific user of social media who sends around 20 tweets a day, is already famous for using the Internet to rile Chinese authorities.
Last month, Ai, a constant thorn in the side of the Chinese government, was ordered to turn off the webcams that he installed at his home in a derisive comment on the constant surveillance to which he is subjected.
"Ai Weiwei is the pioneer in this regard. He is an extremely globalised and technologically savvy individual who had really paved the way," said Kine.
He serves as an example "of how an activist can challenge and in some cases overcome the censorship and obstacles imposed by an authoritarian regime on free thinking individuals," he said.
Using the Internet, Ai was able to mobilise 30,000 Chinese supporters and raise money to help him pay off part of an enormous tax bill that he described as a punishment for exercising his freedom of speech.
On weibos, microblogs that are the Chinese equivalent of Twitter, increasingly creative activists play a constant game of cat and mouse with the censors.
"Social media networks such as weibos have actually empowered an entire new generation," said Kine, adding that their virtual communities are challenging the censors in a way that was impossible before.
Friends of Chen and fellow activist Hu Jia were among the first to harness social media.
It was on Twitter that Hu's wife Zeng Jinyan announced on Wednesday that she was under house arrest.
By pushing the limits, Chen and Ai look certain to inspire other activists, but they are up against a formidable foe.
"We can't say the Chinese government is losing the battle," said Kine, pointing to the "massive human, financial and technological resources" at Beijing's disposal to maintain control over its citizens.
Lam said he expected the loss of face suffered by the Chinese government over the Chen episode would have one certain outcome: "The Chinese will likely crack down harder on the dissidents' community."
