MUMBAI - Pakistan's banned fast bowler Mohammad Asif, who got released from a British jail on Friday after serving a sentence for the infamous spot-fixing scam at Lord's, described his fellow player Salman Butt as a lonely man who was anxiously awaiting an end to his term in the prison.
In an exclusive chat on the phone, Asif disclosed that he was sharing a room with Salman in prison for about three months.
"Salman and I were sharing the same room for three months in the prison and he wished me good luck on the day of my release," said Asif.
"But he (Salman) is a lonely man and looked very depressed on the day of my release from jail. He has been quite miserable at times and is anxiously awaiting his release."
HMP Canterbury is a men's prison which has an arrangement which allows two foreign nationals in the same room.
It must be mentioned that both Asif and Salman along with young pacer Mohammad Aamir were found guilty of involvement in a nasty spot-fixing scam at Lord's Test in 2010.
The three were subsequently banned by the world governing body, the International Cricket Council last year and were later sent to British jail after a Southwark Court trial held in London.
"There were very few Muslims in the prison and we both were first asked whether we could share the same room," recalled Asif.
"We immediately agreed. Having a non-muslim room partner could have made life difficult for both me and Salman."
When asked if there were any ill feelings between the two, particularly after the nerve-racking trial in London last September where both players hurled serious allegations at each other, Asif denied any such thing and added that the bond between the two grew stronger in prison.
"No, there were no ill-feelings between us. In fact, we were like two brothers in the prison," said Asif.
"Both of us were made gym in-charge where we played badminton and football."
Asif said he used to speak to his family over telephone from the prison but none of his family members afforded to visit the jail.
However, the family members of the suspended Pakistan captain Salman did pay visit in the prison.
"Every month in the jail, Salman's wife (Gul), his elder son and mother paid a visit there," informed Asif.
"But his younger son has been denied visa again and therefore he could not see him."
Thirty-six hours after his release from Canterbury Prison, Asif was in a jovial mood.
"My strong legal team is preparing a case and hopefully I will be able to clear my name," he said.
