JAPAN - More than 80 per cent of people aged 15 to 29 are very concerned about whether they can earn enough money or receive public pensions after retirement, according to a draft of an annual government report.
The draft of the government's white paper on children and young people for fiscal 2012 shows that younger generations are not optimistic about the future due to unstable employment conditions amid the nation's aging population.
The government is scheduled to endorse the white paper at a Cabinet meeting in early June.
The draft includes the results of an Internet survey that asked young people about their outlook for the future and what kind of future they wanted for themselves, among other questions.
The survey was conducted nationwide from December to January on 3,000 men and women aged 15 to 29.
The survey found that young people are most worried about their earning power, with 82.9 per cent of respondents saying they were moderately or very concerned about whether they would be able to earn enough.
This was followed by 81.5 per cent who said they were concerned about what would happen to their pension after retirement, and 80.7 per cent who said they were worried about whether they can hold down a job.
As 79.6 per cent of respondents cited worries related to whether they can find jobs or continue to work, the survey revealed a high percentage of people are dealing with economic anxieties, including those related to jobs, income, pension and the state of the economy.
When asked what was the purpose of having a job, most replied with practical answers. At 63.4 per cent, the majority replied "to gain an income," while 51 per cent said "to support one's lifestyle."
Clearly reflecting grim economic and employment opportunities, the survey results showed few respondents thought about their jobs in terms of self-fulfillment.
Fifteen per cent of respondents said the purpose of a job was to "realize hopes and dreams," with 12.6 per cent replying "to support the family" and 11.3 per cent replying "to achieve a sense of accomplishment or sense of life purpose through one's work."
Only 7.6 per cent said it was "to develop one's capabilities."
Although the overall unemployment rate was only 4.5 per cent in 2011, it remained disproportionately higher among young people.
The jobless rate was 9.6 per cent for people aged 15 to 19, 7.9 per cent for people aged 20 to 24 and 6.3 per cent for people aged 25 to 29.
