DILI - Francisco Guterres "Lu Olo" and Taur Matan Ruak fought together in East Timor's bitter struggle for freedom from Indonesia's long occupation of their half-island nation.
Now the former guerrilla leaders are doing battle for the presidency, facing off in a second round of voting after garnering the largest number of votes in the first round last month that failed to produce a decisive winner.
One of the two candidates is set to replace the Nobel Prize-winning incumbent Jose Ramos-Horta who trailed in third place in the first round and lost his bid for a second five-year term.
Both Lu Olo and Ruak are heroes of the fight against Indonesia's 24-year occupation, which left an estimated 183,000 people dead through genocide, disease and starvation, according to the country's reconciliation commission.
Lu Olo - Guterres's nom de guerre by which he is popularly known - has shed his guerrilla image, earning a law degree and campaigning in a suit and tie.
But Ruak went on the campaign trail dressed in military fatigues, reinforcing his hero credentials in a country where the struggle against occupation still resonates, a decade after independence.
The winner will become the leader of an impoverished and unstable country which faces a series of key events including the departure of UN forces stationed there since a bloody 1999 vote for independence.
Lu Olo, who heads the opposition Fretilin party, spent 24 straight years in the jungle, the longest of any of the nation's guerrilla leaders.
Lu Olo has said he had difficulty adjusting to a normal life after spending so long in the jungle - always on the move and hiding in thick undergrowth.
"One afternoon I was having a rest. I was sleeping on a bed I wasn't used to, having always slept on the ground. I don't know how, I must have turned over because the next minute I was on the floor," he said in a documentary.
"I felt so ashamed, I looked at the door but luckily no one saw me. I went back to bed but I slept against the wall so not to fall again."
The soft-spoken politician - who wears large spectacles on a swarthy face and walks with a slight stoop - lost to Ramos-Horta in a second round in 2007.
"I am running because there are a few people who are growing rich, but the rest of this nation has nothing - just look around you, no roads, no nothing," he told AFP before the election.
Ruak, whose name means "piercing eyes" in the local Tetum language, has vowed to introduce mandatory military service if elected.
"We were with you then and we have returned now to work together for prosperity," his campaign posters declared.
Ruak, 55, was East Timor's military commander until resigning in October.
He was only 20 when Indonesia invaded the tiny island.
Ruak took to the hills and joined Fretilin, rising through the ranks until he was made its commander-in-chief in 2000.
"I dreamed of travelling the world, but instead, I have only seen the forests of Timor," author Irena Cristalis quoted him as lamenting in her book "East Timor: A Nation's Bitter Dawn".
East Timor, a chronically unstable nation of 1.1 million people, was pushed to the brink of civil war in 2006, after violence that left at least 37 people dead.
Ruak was accused of involvement in the crisis in which hit squads were armed and tasked with eliminating government opponents.
A United Nations Independent Commission of Inquiry later that year recommended that he be prosecuted, although no attempts have been made to prosecute him.
