In a little over a week, 111 former executives of the Thai Rak Thai Party will be free from the fiveyear political ban that came with a court order to disband their twiceruling party.
On May 30, 2007, the postcoup Constitution Tribunal ordered Thai Rak Thai to be dissolved for electoral fraud and deprived its 111 executives, including cofounder and exleader Thaksin Shinawatra, of electoral rights for five years.
However, it has been no secret that many of Thai Rak Thai's 111 have played politics behind the scenes through nominees, such as spouses, children, and other family members.
Some key figures among the group retained their influence behind political parties legally run by politicians loyal to them.
While serving the ban many of these bigname politicians took the advantage of their political ties to boost family businesses.
Some turned to sport and have run professional football clubs while maintaining a political support base among clubs' local fans.
Some went into charities. Those who were party financiers mostly preferred to keep a low profile politically.
Many of these politicians are waiting eagerly for May 30 to make a legal political comeback. Between 50 and 60 politicians out of the 111 are expected to join Pheu Thai, according to some figures in the ruling party.
Some are reluctant to return and others appear to have decided to stay out of politics for good.
There are three major groups in Thai Rak Thai's 111 - those who have played supporting roles behind Thaksin's proxy parties and their governments, those who have pulled strings behind small political parties whose MPs are former Thai Rak Thai politicians, and those who have kept a low political profile.
After Thai Rak Thai, two political parties linked to Thaksin managed to become the core partner in a ruling coalition - People Power in 2008 and Pheu Thai at present.
Despite the political ban, Thaksin retains his status as the "big boss" of both parties, helping to push his nominees - the late Samak Sundaravej of People Power and his youngest sister Yingluck Shinawatra of Pheu Thai - to the prime minister's seat.
His other sister, Yaowapa Wongsawat, was also one of the Thai Rak Thai 111, and her husband, expremier Somchai Wongsawat, has represented Thaksin in running his proxy parties.
Thaksin's trusted aides among the TRT 111, Prommin Lertsuridej and Phumtham Vechayachai, have recently returned to Government House to work unofficially for the prime minister.
They both are expected to become part of the PM's staff when their political ban ends.
Suranand Vejjajiva, who distanced himself from Thaksin after the 2006 coup, has also made a return to government after settling a score with Thaksin.
He is helping with public relations work for Yingluck and acting as her spokesman.
Pongsak Raktapongpisarn, who has retained close ties with Thaksin, helped with Pheu Thai's election campaign.
Warathep Rattanakorn who worked for Yaowapa on strategies for the party's campaign in the North, is expected to be rewarded with a Cabinet seat.
Sudarat Keyuraphan, formerly a Thai Rak Thai deputy leader and a fourtime Bangkok MP, has retained her influence, particularly among Pheu Thai Party's Bangkok representatives.
She has been involved in charity work while serving her ban.
Sudarat dismissed speculation recently that she would contest next year's election for the Bangkok governor's seat.
She also denied being among figures from the 111 who will be appointed to Cabinet.
After Thai Rak Thai's courtordered dissolution, a large group of its former executives opted not to join Thaksin's proxy parties.
They instead were behind the founding of new political parties or reviving old ones that were left inactive after members joined Thai Rak Thai.
Among the veteran politicians in this group are Somsak Thepsuthin, Newin Chidchob, Sonthaya Khunplome, Pinij Charusombat, Preecha Laohapongchana, Suchart Tancharoen, Sanoh Thienthong, Suwat Liptapanlop, Suriya Juengrungruangkit, and Anutin Chanweerakul.
Pinij, Preecha, and Suchart formed the Puea Pandin Party, with Suwit Khunkitti serving as the first party leader.
However, infighting later led to a breakup and changes of the party's leadership.
Part of Puea Pandin merged with the Ruam Chart Pattana Party to form the Chart Pattana Puea Pandin Party, with Suwat serving as chief adviser. The party has since been renamed Chart Pattana.
Somsak helped set up the Matchima Thipataya Party in late 2007 and after its courtordered dissolution due to electoral fraud, he cofounded the Bhum Jai Thai Party with Newin in early 2009.
Sonthaya's faction became part of Bhum Jai Thai but later formed a new party called Palang Chon, which is now a coalition partner.
Somsak, 57, recently dismissed rumours that he was seeking to return to Thaksin's fold by joining Pheu Thai, saying he would remain with Bhum Jai Thai. He insisted that he would definitely return to politics because he was a "professional politician".
Suriya, who runs Thai Summit Group autoparts manufacturer, appeared to have opted to act as a key financier for Bhum Jai Thai, instead of becoming a fulltime politician like in the past when he was with Thai Rak Thai.
Pinij, 61, now runs large rubber plantations in the northeastern province of Bueng Kan and heads the ThaiChinese Culture and Economy Association.
He said he was not eager to make an immediate return to politics. He preferred to provide advice to younger politicians.
Newin has been branded as "ungrateful to Thaksin" since Bhum Jai Thai joined a Democratled coalition government after the People Power Party was disbanded.
Newin, 54, has successfully run the Buri Ram PEA football club and managed to maintain support from local residents for his team and his party - a success story that many politicians are trying to copy.
In a recent interview, Newin said he had found more happiness in football over the past two years than during two decades in politics.
It appears he is going to remain out of politics for an indefinite period after the fiveyear ban ends.
Anutin, meanwhile, is expected to become Bhum Jai Thai's next leader with Newin's blessing. He will replace his father, Chaovarat Chanweerakul, who is the current leader.
But there have also been rumours that Anutin has attempted to settle relations with Thaksin.
Two other key figures from the Thai Rak Thai 111 - former finance minister Somkid Jatusripitak and former foreign minister Surakiart Sathirathai - have kept a low profile politically for most of the five years.
Surakiart, who distanced himself from Thaksin after the coup, has reestablished good ties with the expremier and started working unofficially as an adviser on foreign affairs for Yingluck.
Somkid, 59, is also waiting patiently to make a political comeback. He has exchanged views with active politicians from time to time.
The homepage of his website (somkid.com) features his political comment: "I believe good politicians exist. They should start making changes for a better future of Thailand."
