BEIJING - The purge of Bo Xilai is a "great fortune" for China's Communist Party, state media said Monday, as authorities seek to avoid a fall-out over the biggest political scandal to hit the nation in years.
Bo's sacking as head of the Chongqing megacity, his purge from the powerful Politburo and the revelation that his wife is a suspect in the alleged murder of Briton Neil Heywood have shocked the nation and exposed rifts in the party.
"Recently, the central government decided to start an investigation into serious disciplinary violations by Comrade Bo Xilai," the state-run Chongqing Daily said in a commentary.
"This is a great fortune for the party, for the country and for Chongqing, deeply suits the party's wishes and the people's wishes," it added, referring also to the probe into Heywood's death last November in the southwestern city.
"The great cadres and people (of Chongqing) know that the... decision was wise and correct, and trust in the central government under the leadership of Comrade Hu Jintao has greatly increased," it said.
The commentary is one of many reports carried by China's tightly-controlled media that rally behind the party, since news emerged last week of Bo's suspension from the Politburo and his wife Gu Kailai's suspicion of murder.
The ruling party - apparently nervous about repercussions on public opinion of the case, which shatters its carefully crafted appearance of unity - has also cracked down on the Internet as wild speculation emerges online.
Authorities have shut down dozens of websites, deleted hundreds of thousands of microblog posts and even detained people for spreading rumours.
But China's weibos - hugely popular microblogs similar to Twitter - have still buzzed with speculation about a scandal worthy of a Hollywood thriller.
Until very recently, Bo - a charismatic politician and a rising star of the party - had been touted to access the highest echelons of power later this year.
The scandal burst into the open in February when Bo's right-hand man Wang Lijun fled in apparent panic to a US consulate, reportedly demanded asylum and handed over large amounts of information about his former boss.
