BEIJING - The leaders of Japan, China and South Korea released a joint declaration Monday, a day after their summit talks, but the document did not incorporate any explicit reference to North Korea's failed missile launch, as the three countries could not agree on the issue.
The Joint Declaration on Enhancement of Trilateral Comprehensive Cooperative Partnership was initially scheduled to be released Sunday, when Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao and South Korean President Lee Myung Bak held a summit in Beijing.
The joint declaration stipulates the terms of agreement for 50 items in five fields, such as "enhancing mutual political trust" and "strengthening economic and trade cooperation."
The document expresses the three countries' commitment to "realizing a peaceful, stable and prosperous East Asia."
However, the declaration does not include a condemnation of North Korea's failed launch of a long-range ballistic missile last month, or urge the country to refrain from carrying out a new nuclear test.
The joint declaration thus indicates a lack of unity among the three leaders, although they had reportedly agreed during talks that they could not accept North Korea's provocative actions.
"The international community must unite to show North Korea its firm commitment" to preventing further provocations by the country, Noda reportedly told his Chinese and South Korean counterparts during the meeting Sunday.
Regarding negotiations on a free trade agreement, the joint declaration says the three countries "should immediately start to prepare, including [completing] domestic procedures and [having] working level consultations" to launch the FTA negotiations this year.
It also calls on each country to carry out their "respective domestic procedures as soon as possible" to bring into effect a trilateral agreement for the promotion, facilitation and protection of investments at the earliest possible date.
Additionally, the joint declaration addresses enhanced trilateral cooperation for maritime search and rescue operations to ensure maritime safety, as well as the stability of the energy market.
Officials from the three countries had final discussions on the draft Sunday, held concurrently with the summit talks of the three leaders, but they failed to agree, informed sources said.
South Korea insisted the document should urge Pyongyang to exercise self-restraint not to carry out a nuclear test or other provocative actions, but China seemed reluctant to include such details, the sources added.
