MANILA - Philippine senators on Tuesday found the country's top judge guilty of corruption, paving the way for him to be sacked in the biggest win of President Benigno Aquino's anti-graft crusade.
Following an impeachment trial lasting more than four months, Supreme Court chief justice Renato Corona was found guilty of violating the constitution and betraying public trust by failing to disclose his assets.
Two thirds of the 23 senators were required to convict Corona and he was officially found guilty after the count reached 16-3 in a historic day for Philippine politics.
"He has lost his moral fitness to serve the people. He has betrayed the public trust. He cannot be the chief justice a minute longer," Senator Franklin Drilon, a member of Aquino's party, said as he voted to convict Corona.
The most severe penalty that the Senate can hand down is sacking Corona, which would be a first in the country's history, and that was widely expected to be the most likely outcome.
However some senators raised the prospect during the trial of Corona escaping with merely being censured, fined or suspended.
The senators were expected to deliberate on the penalty immediately after the verdict.
Corona was also accused of unlawfully trying to protect ex-president Gloria Arroyo from prosecution for corrupt acts she allegedly committed during her near decade in power.
However no verdict was delivered on those charges after Corona was found guilty of the first impeachable offence of failing to disclose his assets.
He admitted last week during his trial that he had not disclosed more than $4 million in bank accounts.
But he said US$2.4 million (S$3 million) in US dollar bank accounts were protected by a law allowing absolute secrecy for foreign currencies, and the other money in Philippine peso accounts belonged to his relatives.
Aquino had repeatedly said removing Corona was crucial to ending a culture of corruption that pervades all levels of Philippine society and he alleged flourished during Arroyo's term, which ended in 2010.
Arroyo is currently on trial for vote rigging.
Aquino had accused Corona, who Arroyo appointed to the top judicial post just before she stood down, of trying to protect her from prosecution.
