HIROSHIMA - The deadly fire that ravaged a hotel in Fukuyama, Hiroshima Prefecture, on Sunday may have been caused by a short circuit or another electrical defect, according to police and other sources.
Seven people were killed and three others were seriously injured in the fire.
It has been learned that the hotel had not been inspected by fire department officials since 2003.
Serious damage was discovered on a wall near the switchboard at the Hotel Prince's front desk, and Hiroshima prefectural police suspect the fire started at this point and spread to the second and third floors through the ceiling.
Local firefighters agree with this assumption.
The front desk is located roughly at the center of the hotel's two buildings--a two-story wooden structure and a partly four-story reinforced concrete building.
On Monday, the police and officials of the Fukuyama district firefighting association found serious damage on the east wall where the switchboard was located near the front desk.
A 75-year-old woman, who was the only employee present in the hotel when the fire broke out, was quoted by police as saying that although she tried to put the fire out, it was too late.
The woman, who suffered head and hand burns, gave her statement to police in a hospital.
A doctor was present during the interview.
The Minami Fire Department, which exercises jurisdiction over Hotel Prince, has not conducted an on-site inspection of the hotel for more than 8-1/2 years.
On Monday, fire department chief Hiromichi Yokoyama repeatedly expressed remorse that the hotel had not been inspected since 2003 and bowed deeply to reporters.
The fire and disaster management bureau of the Fukuyama district firefighting association plans to launch an investigation into the fire department.
According to the bureau's regulations, on-site inspections are supposed to be conducted every two years at hotels and other buildings where large numbers of people congregate.
Speaking to reporters Monday, the fire bureau said the fire department's employees and other people will be questioned to learn how the department operated.
The Yomiuri Shimbun has learned that the woman who runs the hotel said she had no money to improve smoke-detection equipment when she was told to do so by an official of the Fukuyama city office in September last year.
The official was taken by the woman to the third floor of the building and the wooden building could be seen from there.
The official said it was dark because the outside light was not working and the emergency electric lighting system was inadequate.
