CIJERUK, Indonesia, May 13, 2012 (AFP) - Dozens of Russian experts combed a remote mountainside in Indonesia Sunday searching for the flight recorders of a Sukhoi jet that slammed into a dormant volcano killing everyone on board.
Indonesian authorities said they had located the Superjet's tail, where the black boxes are mounted.
&ldquo;The search and rescue teams have just spotted the tail of the plane about 300 metres (1,000 feet) from the mountain peak and they are trying now to reach it,&rdquo; said Daryatmo, head of the national search and rescue agency, who goes by one name.
&ldquo;Hopefully we'll soon find the black boxes,&rdquo; he added.
He said Indonesian investigators had questioned staff at the control tower for information about the Russian plane's last contact with the ground and radar readings before it slammed into Mount Salak, a dormant volcano.
Reaching the site, just 80 kilometres (50 miles) south of Jakarta, and retrieving scattered body parts and debris in jungle terrain on the near-vertical mountain has posed an extreme challenge for rescuers.
Indonesian marines and professional climbers were Sunday attempting to descend into a deep ravine, Daryatmo said.
Authorities said more Russians were trekking to the site and that a total of 73 Russians would take part in the operation.
The Sukhoi Superjet 100 disappeared from radar during what was supposed to be a short demonstration flight to tout Russia's first post-Soviet civilian aircraft.
Officials have confirmed that there were no survivors on the plane carrying at least 45 people, mostly Indonesian airline representatives and eight Russians.
More than 20 body bags with the remains of victims had arrived in Jakarta by Sunday for forensics tests and identification, authorities said.
&ldquo;The location today is very steep, so it's not going to be easy to carry the body bags from down there and up (to the helipad),&rdquo; Daryatmo said.
Questions are swirling over why the plane crashed with an experienced pilot at the helm.
A Russian fact-finding committee has said there were indications that safety standards were violated.
Key to the mystery is why the pilot requested permission to descend from 10,000 feet (3,000 metres) to 6,000 feet before the plane disappeared from radar screens and slammed into Mount Salak, which rises to 7,200 feet.
The transport ministry confirmed Saturday that a control tower in Jakarta gave the pilot permission to descend as the plane approached a military base, where mountains reach around 3,000 feet.
&ldquo;Based on a report from the control tower, we know the pilot made the request to descend to 6,000 feet, and yes, the control tower gave him permission to do so,&rdquo; the ministry's director general for aviation Herry Bakti told AFP.
&ldquo;He was approaching the Atang Senjaya military base, which is a safe place to fly low, and we know that he did in fact descend to 6,000 feet.&rdquo;
Bakti said it was unclear what happened after that.
Sukhoi's representative company in Indonesia, Trimarga Rekatama, has apologised for confusion surrounding its manifest, claiming at first that 50 passengers were on board but revising the number down to 45. Local rescue officials said the plane was carrying 46.
Photos of the plane's earlier demonstration flight posted online by Russian blogger Sergey Dolya show relaxed passengers smiling on board, being treated to champagne, as well as Russian and Indonesian crew posing outside the jet.
A French and US national were also on board the flight.
The flight was part of an Asian sales tour to promote the aircraft, a joint venture between Sukhoi and Italy's Alenia Aeronautica, which made its first commercial flight last year.
