VIETNAM - A doctor has forced his wife to film her sexual acts with her boss two times so that he has clear evidence to accuse the boss of having sex with his subordinate.
Two years ago H. M. Huynh, of Road 2 health center, caught his wife H.T.B.N, who also works as a doctor at the center, having an adulterous affair with Nguyen Manh Cuong, the center's director.
Huynh said his wife initially denied the relationship but finally admitted that she agreed to have sex with Cuong for an opportunity for higher education and asked forgiveness from him.
Afterwards N. wanted to end the illicit relations with Cuong, but he refused.
Huynh bought two cameras shaped like a pen a coat button and asked his wife use them to film her sexual acts with Cuong as a way to end their affair.
In January 2010, N. severed her relations with Cuong and gave her husband the tape. But the images in the video were not clear enough to see the 'two main characters', so Huynh asked his wife to 'act' for a second time.
One month later, N. arranged an appointment with Cuong at a hotel and informed her husband of it. When they were having sex, Huynh and some people stormed into the room and caught them in the act. Huynh required Cuong to make a report that he would not do it again.
However, according to Huynh, after the incident, Cuong continued to create difficulties for his wife at the health center so they decided to lodge a petition to police in Van Giang district in the northern province of Hung Yen, where Road 2 health center is situated, to ask for their intervention.
After that, the two parties reached an agreement through conciliation that they would not reveal their "secrets" and smear each other.
But earlier this year, Cuong continued to cause problems for N. at work for no apparent reason, Huynh said. Therefore, the couple has decided to let the facts be known to public.
"No one wants to put his wife's sexual relations with another person in the press. But we have no other choice to seek help from concerned authorities," the husband said.
The wife admitted that she slept with her boss three times. "I suffer great misery doing that. Sometimes, I want to commit suicide," she told VnExpress Newswire.
"In early 2012, Cuong didn't not stop asking me for sex. He often sought ways to threaten me if I refused his requests. When I let him down, he suspended me from working for three months.
When I returned to work, he continually forced me to make reports about my faults or mistakes developed by his imagination and publicly announced them in meetings at the center" she added.
In a report that Cuong made after being caught having sex with N., he confessed to all of the accusations.
"At 8:30am on February 3, 2010, I made an appointment with N. to have sex at A Dong hotel on National Highway 5. While we were having sex, N's husband opened the door and caught us without clothes in the middle of the act," Cuong said in the report.
According to the report, Cuong admitted that he had sex with N twice at the A Dong hotel.
"I would like to meet Dr. Huynh's family to compensate them fully for their material and mental losses. I pledge that I will not have sex with N. again. I promise to obey fully the law of Vietnam and will bear all responsibility for any violation," the report said.
The Directorate for Roads of Vietnam, which is in charge of managing Road 2 health center, has suspended the accused Nguyen Manh Cuong and Dr. N from work, pending investigation.
