MUMBAI/NEW DELHI - The country's aviation sector plunged deeper into crisis today as aggrieved pilots of financially crippled Kingfisher Airlines (KFA) decided to report sick - like their counterparts in national carrier Air India ~ and strike work from Thursday night demanding early settlement of their long-pending salary dues.
With over 200 pilots owing allegiance to the Indian Pilots Guild still refusing to join duty, Air India moved the Supreme Court against the striking pilots and suspended its international bookings to New York, New Jersey, Chicago, Toronto, London, Paris and Frankfurt.
Some other foreign destinations are also likely to be affected. Air India was forced to cancel about 30 flights since Wednesday night, while at least 17 Kingfisher flights, all originating from Delhi, had to be cancelled on Thursday because of the pilots reporting sick.
Passengers were severely inconvenienced as airline officials were unable to accommodate them on other flights or give any concrete information on when their flights would take off.
Today, Air India sacked nine more pilots, taking the total to 45 since Tuesday night when members of the IPG refused to fly unless their grievances are sorted out. While 10 pilots were dismissed on Tuesday, another 26 were shown the door yesterday.
Air India also moved a petition in the Supreme Court seeking initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against the office bearers of the IPG for obstructing implementation of its order on training of pilots for the Dreamliner aircraft.
The airline management said the ongoing protest action by IPG amounts to contempt of the SC's orders.
A defiant IPG demanded that the AI management must withdraw the sack orders and contended that till then there was no question of pilots resuming work.
Delhi High Court had yesterday held the strike as illegal and barred the pilots from resorting to sick leave and staging demonstrations.
Kingfisher pilots say chairman Vijay Mallya has gone back on his 5 May promise to clear their January salary dues on 9 May. The airline's Mumbai-based pilots are expected to join their Delhi counterparts tomorrow.
Meanwhile, the Air India management and the minister Mr Ajit Singh have also toughened their stand, informing the striking pilots to first resume work as a pre-condition for holding meaningful talks. The agitating pilots have sought the intervention of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to resolve the impasse. "It is a matter of life and death and career for the pilots.
Talks were held by IPG with AI management which did not honour its commitments. The management has a non-serious attitude towards our grievances," Mr Jitendra Avhad, IPG president said.
In another development, the Mallya-led UB group's United Breweries (Holdings) Ltd announced Kingfisher Airlines had ceased to be its subsidiary, though it had a "significant exposure" of over Rs 12,000 crore to the air carrier. Announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter ended 31 March 2012, which saw its net profit plunging sharply by over 83 per cent to Rs 2.10 crore, UB Holdings said that Kingfisher ceased to be a subsidiary as on 18 February 2012 after the carrier allotted shares against optionally convertible debentures to certain entities.
In Parliament, Opposition MPs put the government on the mat over the dismal situation prevailing in Air India and called for a comprehensive revamp of its civil aviation policy.
A special discussion on the subject was initiated by CPI leader Mr Gurudas Dasgupta and the BJP's Shahnawaz Hussain in the Lok Sabha.
