Taylor Kidd, a Taiwan-born woman adopted by an American family nearly 50 years ago, had a joyful reunion with her biological mother in Chunglih, Taoyuan County, yesterday evening, immediately after her arrival from Honolulu, Hawaii.
"I can believe it, I am home at last," a tearful Kidd told reporters repeatedly after her arrival. She also said she is grateful to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for its help in locating her biological mother and siblings.
Kidd was 10 months old when she first arrived in the United States in 1963. One of Kidd's biological brothers, Wang Bin, met her at the airport.
"I missed her during all these 50 years," Wang said as his biological sister cried on his shoulder.
Asked whether she blames her parents for their decision to give her away, Kidd said she could understand their decision at that time, considering the circumstances then. "I love her," Kidd said before bursting into tearful sobs.
Last year, Kidd approached the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office (TECO) in Honolulu with her long-expired Republic of China passport, one apparently issued to her when she left the Taiwan for the first time, and asked for its assistance in locating her relatives in Taiwan.
According to Kidd, her adopted parents had told her that her relatives in Taiwan, including her biological parents, are forbidden by the organization that arranged the adoption to look for her in the United States.
Kidd, a mother who does not speak Chinese but has given her children a Chinese-language education, has tried but failed to locate her relatives through friends and various "connections."
The MOEA's Department of North American Affairs in Taipei relayed Kidd's request to police departments and household registration authorities across the country, who kept drawing blanks for six months until last week, when the police precinct in Xindian district reported a possible match.
Another of her older biological brothers, actor Wang Hui-wu, now lives in Xindian District in New Taipei, according to an MOFA official.
Approached by police officers on the matter, Wang revealed that when he was 12, his parents did put a younger sister up for adoption, and when he saw the picture of Kidd, his immediate response was: "She is an exact look-alike of our late father."
Before boarding her flight at the airport, a visibly moved and nervous Kidd wept profusely as she learned to write her Chinese name Wang Yi-wen.
A fluent speaker of English with her hair dyed blonde, Kidd looks more Caucasian than Asian, especially when she is fashionably dressed, according to sources. She does not speak or understand Chinese, and could not even recognize the Chinese name printed in her expired Republic of China passport, a source said.
So the older brother and Kidd talked over the phone, with the Kidd's children acting as translators.
According to Kidd, her adoptive parents had told her that her biological parents were from what is today's Shaanxi Province in mainland China.
Too poor to feed another mouth when there were already eight other children at home, Kidd's biological parents, with the help of an organization called "Parent's Planning Association," let their youngest daughter be adopted by a wealthy American couple in Houston, Texas, as the young girl's mother lay sick at National Taiwan University Hospital.
According to Wang Hui-wu, however, there were only four children in the family.
