SEOUL - The owner of a South Korean karaoke lounge where nine people died in a weekend blaze had made illegal alterations to the interior which made it hard to find emergency exits, police said Monday.
The fire on Saturday night in the southern city of Busan also injured 25 others. The dead included three migrant Sri Lankan workers who were holding a party with Korean colleagues from a car parts company.
The blaze started in an empty room near the front door and spread quickly through the lounge. The victims inhaled toxic gases after being trapped inside.
"The owner was found to have altered the structure of his lounge illegally," a police investigator in Busan told AFP on condition of anonymity.
He said the complicated layout of the individual karaoke rooms into which the premises were divided made it hard for customers to find the two emergency exits, one of which was inside one of the rooms. There were no sprinklers.
Survivors said they could hardly move through the establishment's narrow hallway and could not open the windows.
Witnesses reported hearing a loud bang before smoke engulfed the establishment, on the third floor of a six-storey building in a busy commercial district of the port city.
Firefighters believe the blaze might have been caused by a electrical short-circuit.
"But it is still unclear what started the fire, and we are trying to restore the lounge's CCTV to see whether the owner violated rules on fire safety," the investigator said.
In January a new law took effect, requiring karaoke establishments to use a device which automatically stops video content in individual rooms and displays a warning in case of a fire.
The investigator could not immediately say whether such a device was fitted in the Busan venue.
Newspapers said many customers did not realise a blaze had broken out because employees initially tried to put out the fire on their own, delaying evacuation.
Dong-A newspaper said the Busan fire highlighted the dangers at South Korea's 36,841 karaoke establishments, which use flammable sound-insulating materials inside.
It said there were 197 fires at such places last year.
