A Changsha, Hunan province, court began on Friday to hear the first trial in China involving someone who believes he was discriminated against because he is colorblind.
Liu Yun - not his real name - took the country's civil service examination in April 2010 and made the highest grade among all of the candidates who were trying to secure a position in the province's bureau of geology and mineral exploration and development.
His hopes, though, were dashed in October 2010, when he learned he couldn't have the job because he is colorblind, a condition the bureau discovered during a physical check.
Liu responded by contending that holders of the post are not required to have normal vision. On Dec 14, 2011, he filed a lawsuit against the bureau, alleging employment discrimination and demanding 50,000 yuan ($7,900) in compensation.
"I think the chances that Liu Yun will win this lawsuit are rather slim, because the court usually does not issue sentences that would embarrass local government departments, even if there is sufficient evidence of hiring discrimination," said Li Fangping, a Beijing lawyer. Li has worked on various prominent discrimination cases related to the hiring of civil servants.
"For example, in 2010, I handled the first lawsuit alleging that government departments had discriminated against an HIV carrier," Li said. "That received a lot of attention. We lost in the end, even though the law clearly prohibits that kind of discrimination."
Also in 2010, Li litigated a case in Foshan, Guangdong province, alleging that local human resources and social security departments had refused to give jobs to three carriers of the thalassemia gene, which can cause anemia, even after they had passed interview and written exams.
"Although the accusers lost the case, the Foshan government revised its admission rules the next year," Li said.
Lu Jun, an anti-discrimination activist from the Beijing Yirenping Center, a non-government organization that promotes social justice, called on government agencies to set a good example by preventing discrimination.
"There's far worse than discriminating against someone because of his being color blind," Lu said. "Prejudices against other things, including disabilities and communicable diseases, are more common.
"If government agencies do not take the initiative themselves, their plan to reduce discrimination in hiring will just be a hollow slogan."
Current regulations stipulate that 1.5 per cent of government agencies' workforces be composed of the disabled. Lu's research, though, suggests that "most agencies do not follow the law at all. Some agencies do not have disabled employees, while they make up less than 1 per cent of the workforce at others."
As for the case involving color blindness, Lu said the Hunan bureau had "adopted unnecessary constraints".
"The security managerial position Liu applied for does not come with specific demands for color vision," he said.
In November 2010, the Ministry of Health, the State Administration of Civil Service and the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security published the physical examination standards that aspiring civil servants must meet to enroll in the service. They listed various types of work that are not considered suitable for colorblind employees, including chemical testing or diplomatic affairs, but did not mention the position Liu had applied for.
