TAIWAN - No confidential military information was stored on a laptop that went missing last month from a locally built missile boat, the Ministry of National Defense (MND) said yesterday, amid a local media report that the missing computer could cause a breach in national security.
"The missing laptop was used to test the communication capabilities (of the missile boat) and it did not contain any classified military information," said Colonel Lin Gau-joe of the MND's Chung Shan Institute of Science and Technology yesterday during a news briefing.
Lin stressed that there are no concerns over a possible security leak.
Speaking at the same briefing, military spokesman Luo Shou-he, however, admitted error on the part of the military that resulted in the loss of the laptop from a Kuang Hua VI (KH-6) fast attack missile boat on May 25.
He noted that an ad hoc investigative team has been established by the MND to find the missing computer and those responsible personnel will be punished for their alleged negligence.
The military officials made the comments in response to a Chinese-language Apple Daily report yesterday that quoted sources as saying a computer that could store confidential data was allegedly stolen from a KH-6 fast attack last month.
Military sources expressed concern that it was possible the missing laptop could contain confidential files regarding the KH-6 fast-attack craft and Hsiung Feng II anti-ship missiles that are equipped on the boat.
Both the KH-6 boats and the missiles are locally developed armaments and could pose national security threats if leaked to China, the report said.
In response, Luo Shou-he confirmed the report yesterday, while stressing that an ad hoc team is investigating in the hopes of finding the missing laptop as soon as possible.
The case has also being turned over to military prosecutors to determine whom should be blamed for the negligence, he added.
Taiwan commissioned its first squadron of 11 KH-6 radar-evading fast-attack craft, produced by local shipmaker China Shipbuilding Corp., in May 2010.
Since then, 20 more of the 170-ton ships have entered service.
Each boat comes with four Hsiung Feng II anti-ship missiles with a range of 150 km, as well as a 20 mm anti-aircraft gun. These weapons are the primary defensive measure used by the Taiwan Navy to counter enemy military vessels.
