The former chief of the Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office's special investigation squad has been accused of embellishing the investigative report on the alleged involvement of former Democratic Party of Japan President Ichiro Ozawa in irregularities concerning his political funds management group, sources said.
The report was written by the former deputy chief to submit to his boss, Tatsuya Sakuma, the 55-year-old prosecutor leading the special investigation unit at that time. However, Sakuma added a considerable amount to the document before it was submitted to the Tokyo No.5 Committee for the Inquest of Prosecution, which recommended Ozawa's indictment.
Currently, prosecutors are looking into whether the squad's members intended to influence the committee's decision on Ozawa's potential indictment.
On April 26, the Tokyo District Court found Ozawa, 69, not guilty of an alleged violation of the Political Funds Control Law.
According to sources, the about 20-page report compiled by the former deputy chief quoted parts of another controversial report written on May 17, 2010, by Masahiro Tashiro. Tashiro, a former member of the investigative squad, had questioned House of Representatives member Tomohiro Ishikawa on a voluntary basis and then falsified his statements.
Ishikawa, previously an aide to Ozawa, has been found guilty of falsifying political funds reports for Rikuzan-kai, Ozawa's political funds management group, and has appealed to the Tokyo High Court.
In the report submitted to the committee for the inquest of prosecution, the deputy chief reevaluated evidence from the statements given by Ozawa, Ishikawa and others. The report included elements that could be used to argue both for and against the existence of a conspiracy among Ozawa and involved parties.
After receiving the report from the deputy chief, Sakuma allegedly underlined a section quoted from the report falsified by Tashiro, which strongly indicated Ozawa's involvement. Sakuma also allegedly embellished the statements given by Ozawa, Ishikawa and others in the report.
Following the Tokyo No. 5 Committee for the Inquest of Prosecution's first decision in April 2010 that Ozawa merited indictment, the special investigation unit reviewed Ozawa's case and made a total of six reports, including the one from the deputy chief.
All six reports were submitted to the committee for the inquest of prosecution. The committee quoted sections from the reports when it made the same decision for the second time in September 2010.
Regarding the initial falsification in the May 2010 report, the Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office is investigating Tashiro's involvement. They are also looking into him and his bosses on further suspicions, including the creation of false sealed official documents, following claims by a citizens group.
Sakuma had said he was in favor of indicting Ozawa. Sources say Sakuma told investigators that he had no knowledge of Tashiro's falsified report, and that he did not intend to lead the committee to make the decision to indict Ozawa.
Meanwhile, documents that appear to be investigative reports on the Rikuzan-kai case have been leaked on the Internet, it has been learned.
The documents are believed to be seven reports, including the investigative report with a false portion created by Tashiro on Ishikawa's statements.
All seven documents were disclosed during Ozawa's trial. However, the Criminal Procedure Code prohibits the use of disclosed evidence for purposes other than trials.
A citizens group that filed charges against Tashiro with the Supreme Public Prosecutors Office on suspicion of creating a false sealed official document and other charges was the first in Japan to reveal a website where these documents can be downloaded.
According to the group's leader, the group received two e-mails with the URL of a Russian website from which these documents could be downloaded. The leader disclosed the URL on her blog Thursday morning.
