Apprehending an influx of Rohingya refugees when the state of emergency is lifted in the Rakhine state of Myanmar, the Bangladesh government has decided to reinforce guards at the border with the country.
Official sources said a meeting of five law enforcement agencies at the foreign ministry yesterday stressed the need for immediate reinforcement of adequate number of Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) and Bangladesh Coast Guard troops along the border and also on the Naf river and the Bay.
The meeting was given intelligence reports that over 100 boats were ready in Myanmar to ferry Rohingyas into Bangladesh as soon as the state of emergency there is withdrawn or relaxed.
The meeting was told that more than 80 per cent of the Rohingyas who had tried to infiltrate into Bangladesh recently did not come from the region where sectarian violence took place.
Chaired by Foreign Secretary Mijarul Quayes, the meeting was attended by the inspector general of police, director general of BGB, principal staff officer of Armed Forces Division, deputy commissioner and superintendent of police of Cox's Bazar and Bandarban districts and other high officials from the ministries of home and foreign affairs.
The meeting recommended building fences along the border with Myanmar. Foreign ministry officials said a proposal in this regard was made several years ago but the government did not make any decision in this regard.
Myanmar has 10 feet high fence along the border.
The meeting was told that BGB and Coast Guard personnel did not push Rohingyas back by force. The Rohingyas were provided with food, medicine and fuel and then persuaded to return to their land.
The meeting had a discussion about the baby which was found in a refugee boat and was in a local hospital in good health. It also discussed the Rohingya man who sustained bullet injuries in Myanmar and was arrested in Bangladesh. He was having treatment in a hospital.
"The policeman who arrested the injured Rohingya, has donated his blood to save the life of the man," said an official, who was present at the meeting, adding, "We have facilitated the Rohingyas to go back their home safely."
The meeting observed that a criminal nexus, which had long been working in Myanmar and Bangladesh, was allowing the Rohingyas inside Bangladesh and providing them with passports and sending them to Saudi Arabia and other middle-eastern countries. It observed that this was causing Bangladesh's overseas job market to suffer and it was damaging the image of Bangladesh abroad.
Officials said the government had taken the right decision not to allow any refugees in our densely populated country.
Meeting sources said there was no state-level persecution in Myanmar this time and it was a religious riot and there was no influx of Rohingyas.
Officials said there has been no report of violence and persecution in Rakhine state and the situation was now stable. "But we are apprehending that Rohingyas may again attempt to come as soon as the army there is withdrawn," said a senior official of the foreign ministry.
The meeting was informed that BGB had strengthen its guard along 200km of border but it laid importance on further reinforcement.
Coast Guard officials said they did not have big ships to guard the Naf. They said the number of Coast Guard personnel had been increased there but additional troops would be deployed to guard the waterways.
