ILIGAN CITY, Philippines - Three people were killed and over 20 others - mostly students - injured after an unidentified man tossed a grenade into a crowded bar in this southern Philippine city early Saturday evening, police said.
After the blast at around 7:50 p.m., the man boarded a van that sped away, city police chief Celso Regencia said, citing witnesses.
"The apparent target was El Centro," he was quoted by Agence France-Presse as saying, referring to an area in the port city popular for its restaurants, bars and night clubs.
One of the fatalities was identified as Junel Dumalagan, Chief Superintendent Jufel Adriatico of the Police Regional Office 10 told INQUIRER.net.
Adriatico and Lieutenant Colonel Randolph Cabangbang, spokesman for the Army's Western Mindanao Command, said the wounded were rushed to three hospitals in the city.
Colonel Daniel Lucero, commander of the Army's 103rd Infantry Brigade, said that only one person was killed while 17 others were injured.
Lucero said investigators have recovered fragments of the grenade.
"So far we don't have suspects yet but the police were conducting the investigation," he said.
Adriatico said those injured were brought to the Sanitarium Hospital, Iligan City Hospital, and Dr. Uy Hospital.
The establishment - El Centro KTV bar on Aguinaldo Street, Palau, Iligan City - is a rendezvous for most Iliganons, especially during Saturdays as live bands play there.
Radio reports said investigators suspected a grenade was used in the attack, but declined to say whether it was perpetrated by groups opposed to the ongoing peace talks between the government and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF).
They said they were also checking information that the bombers used a maroon FX van as a getaway vehicle.
But Regencia said the motive of the attack and the type of explosive used were not immediately clear.
The city was placed under heightened alert.
Iligan City lies on the north coast of Mindanao island. The region has been mired in a decades-old Muslim insurgency as well as bombings and kidnappings by Abu Sayyaf, a group founded with seed money from late Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden in the 1990s.
