Observation tours for next Monday's annular or "gold ring" eclipse and related events are exciting public interest across the country.
In Chiba Prefecture, which is located on the central line of the eclipse's optimal viewing area, people are trying to drum up business by holding various eclipse viewing events.
According to experts, the best place to observe the eclipse is in Chiba Prefecture, on the eastern coast of the Boso Peninsula.
The Choshi municipal government plans to hold an eclipse-viewing event at an observation facility on Cape Inubosaki, which is famous as a viewing site for the first sunrise each year.
Another tour to observe the eclipse from a cruise ship for dolphin watching is also planned.
Seven Culture Network Co., a Tokyo-based company that manages culture classes and sells tour packages, offers a tour that includes seats at a talk show hosted by former astronaut Naoko Yamazaki and accommodations at an Inubosaki hotel.
Guests at Sunrise Kujukuri, an ocean resort hotel run by the Chiba prefectural government, will be able to view the eclipse from either their rooms or an indoor grand bath. The hotel is almost completely booked for Monday.
Cable cars at Mt. Nokogiriyama, another viewing spot for the year's first sunrise in the prefecture, are scheduled to run especially for the occasion from 6:30 a.m. on Monday.
Fumio Ishida, chief advisor at the Chiba Prefectural Tourism &amp; Local Products Association, said, "We hope the eclipse will attract tourists to the prefecture as tourism has considerably decreased following the Great East Japan Earthquake."
Various related events are also planned in a number of cities within the prefecture. The Narashino municipal government will hold a ceremony for 25 couples celebrating their golden (50th) wedding anniversary, playing on the similarity of the Japanese words for "golden wedding" (kinkon) and "gold ring" (kinkan).
In Kamagaya, where the central line of the optimal viewing area intersects with the 140 degrees east longitude line, a countdown board has been installed on the first floor of the city office to set the mood for the occasion.
Observation tours are also planned in Aichi and Mie prefectures.
As bad weather obscured the total solar eclipse in 2009, airplane observation tours are especially popular this year.
Club Tourism International Inc., a Tokyo-based tour company, has arranged an eclipse observation tour using a chartered plane from Fuji Dream Airlines from Nagoya Airport.
By the end of April, the company had sold out about 70 seats at 25,000 yen per person.
"Many people have put their names on the waiting list in case of cancellations," an official at the company said.
Sea tours are another popular option.
Isewan Ferry Co. in Toba, Mie Prefecture, is selling tickets for a special observation ferry departing at 7 a.m., one hour earlier than usual, to coincide with the eclipse.
Shima Marine Leisure Co. has also arranged an observation cruise about five kilometers away from Kashikojima Port in Shima.
Based on weather data collected over the past 30 years, the probability of fine weather on Monday is 76.7 per cent in Nagoya, 63.3 per cent in Tokyo and 50 per cent in Osaka.
It is highly likely that people on the ground will also be able to observe the eclipse.
