TAIWAN - The Democratic Progressive Party's (DPP) Annette Lu said yesterday that she had no idea the NT$150,000 (S$6,375) she received every month while serving as vice president was involved with former President Chen Shui-bian's corruption cases, saying she believed it was a "reward" from Chen.
While Chen and his wife, former first lady Wu Shu-jen, are both serving sentences of different lengths and still waiting for further charges to reach the supreme court, Lu is under investigation by a district court for involvement in corruption during the period she served as vice president.
According to the special investigations unit, from May of 2002 through May of 2007, Chen provided Lu with NT$150,000, per month out of his special budget.
Lu's secretaries and office staff are accused of gathering unrelated receipts in an attempt to show that the money had been put to official use, while the money simply went into Lu's pockets, according to prosecutors.
Lu was charged with fraud and corruption for having accumulated NT$2.71 million during her vice presidential office terms.
Lu testified yesterday at the Taipei District Court that she did not have a clear idea about how things worked when she first began serving as vice president, and administrative work was generally handled by Presidential Office staff or her assistants.
Although accountants did occasionally request that she sign certain receipt-related documents, she said she never suspected anything illegally was going on.
Lu said she had seen Presidential Office documents suggesting vice presidents have always been provided with special expenses, so she did not regard the additional money as illegal.
Also, Chen had definitely told her that the additional money he provided her with monthly was a "reward," which she only had to sign to accept, Lu said.
Regarding prosecutors' argument that Lu, having served in the position of Taoyuan magistrate, should understand the meaning of consequences of signing for the governmental head's special expenses, Lu said that she indeed had no idea.
Had she known, she would never have allowed those working under her to collect receipts for the purpose of fraud, she asserted.
