The tyrannical "kingdom" of former rising Chinese leader Bo Xilai has collapsed.
Bo, who was Chongqing's Communist Party secretary, has been ousted after revelations that he is suspected of involvement in the poisoning and murder of a British businessman in the southwestern Chinese city last November.
Bo's remarkable demise has created a serious headache for the Chinese Communist Party as it prepares for a once-in-a-decade leadership succession, and revealed the sort of overbearing administration that can develop in a one-party regime with no checks on its authority.
A senior party official assembled his subordinates in a small conference room on April 10, the day the scandal became public. In an unusual move, attendees were ordered to turn off their cell phones and prohibited from taking notes.
The official explained the background that led to Bo's wife, Gu Kailai, and Zhang Xiaojun, a servant at Bo's home, being suspected of conspiring to have Neil Heywood murdered in a Chongqing hotel last November.
"They tried to poison Heywood with a drink, but he spat it out," the official said. "The two people then forcibly held Heywood down, and poured the poison into his mouth."
Bo had often boasted of his two-year crackdown on criminal elements in Chongqing that resulted in the arrest of more than 5,700 people. The senior official's suggestion that Bo might have somehow been involved in a murder staggered other people in the room.
"He was the gangster of all gangsters," one attendee said.
The senior official spoke as if reading out the synopsis of a mystery novel.
"The item Heywood spat out was retrieved and stored by the deputy chief of the Chongqing Public Security Bureau, and that has become a decisive piece of evidence. Wang Lijun has been applauded for cooperating in helping to unravel the truth in this incident," one official said.
Wang, the former bureau leader and Bo's right-hand man, fled to the US Consulate in the nearby city of Chengdu on Feb. 6. He stayed there for about a day before he was transferred to Chinese government authorities in Beijing.
Police initially said Heywood's death was accidental. If Wang had not exposed the details of Heywood's death to consulate officials, and if overseas media had not reported on the story, it is doubtful that Chinese authorities would have launched a fresh investigation into the matter.
In fact, Bo's despotic behavior had been an open secret for years.
In 2000, when Bo was mayor of Dalian in Liaoning Province, he threw reporter Jiang Weiping behind bars for writing articles in a Hong Kong publication that were critical of him. In 2009, during Bo's crime crackdown in Chongqing, a lawyer from Beijing who had claimed a senior gang member was innocent in court found himself being prosecuted for fabricating evidence.
There are also clear signs of foul play in the Heywood case.
According to judicial sources, the party's Central Commission for Discipline Inspection was investigating suspected corruption involving a person close to Bo even before Heywood's death.
The commission had questioned Wang and had been making moves to speak to the British businessman, who was friends with both Bo and his wife, Gu. Wang clashed with Bo over how they should deal with the investigation.
A furious Bo reportedly punched Wang in the face and yelled, "Stop being an idiot!"
At the end of January, Wang tried to visit Bo to offer him greetings during Chinese New Year, but was turned away at the door.
Wang, who had supported Bo's tyrannical rule for a decade, found himself with nobody he could trust. As he drove to the US Consulate in Chengdu, he telephoned a Chinese newspaper reporter he had met only once.
"I fear my life could be in danger if I'm left alone with Bo," he said.
The collapse of Bo's Chongqing kingdom was then imminent.
On March 15, it was announced that Bo had been removed from his Chongqing party post, and on April 10, he was stripped of his powerful Communist Party positions due to suspected "serious discipline violations."
