TAIWAN - Former Education Minister Wu Ching-chi yesterday urged the government to relax the restrictions on mainland students studying in Taiwan.
Taiwan started accepting students from mainland China to university degree programs last year, but many restrictions remain in place, Wu said.
Many of the restrictions were designed out of political considerations, but now they should be changed, Wu said at a Taipei forum on the enrollment of students from China.
Taiwan allocated 2,000 university openings for mainland students last year, but only the 928 were filled.
Wu said one of the major reasons for the under-enrollment is that China only allows students from six coastal provinces or cities (Beijing, Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian and Guangdong) to come to study in Taiwan.
Wu Si-hua, head of National Chengchi University, echoed Wu's views.
He said political prejudice should be set aside when the government considers its policy for enrolling students from China.
Every student - local and China students alike - should be treated equally on campus, he said.
Cheng Hai-tung, head of Tunghai University, said education needs diversification, with enrollment of students from different places being a form of diversification.
The restrictions designed for the initial stage of opening the doors to students from China are understandable, but it is now time to move on and ease the restrictions, Chen continued.
A student from mainland China who is studying for a doctoral degree at National Taiwan University said the Taiwan government's promise of non-discrimination does not materialize in school.
He said the local press and people are "very defensive" when looking at foreign and Chinese students, and they fear the students are here to rob the R.O.C. of its educational resources.
Vice Education Minister Lin Tsung-ming agreed that it is time to consider relaxing the restrictions.
There have not been many issues with verifying educational credentials, employment or national security since Taiwan started enrolling students from across the Strait last year, Lin said.
The Education Ministry has already formed a task force for revising the regulations, he said.
One of the major issues that the ministry is eager to address is whether Chinese students should be covered by the National Health Insurance program, he said.
We have to find a way to ease the Chinese students' financial burdens and create a more attractive higher education environment, he said.
The ministry has already relaxed the rules to allow China students to pursue internships in Taiwan after graduation, he said.
But it is still working with the Council of Labor Affairs to study the possibility of employing mainland students as research assistants at school, he said.
Meanwhile, Ye Kedong, an official from China's Taiwan Affairs Office, said during a visit to Tainan that cross-strait relations are at their best in 60 years.
He said since 2008, cross-strait ties have seen major changes.
Social and economic exchanges between Taiwan and China have been accelerating, he added.
He said Taiwan students may now study in 215 universities in China, and last year there were over 4,700 Taiwan students studying in mainland universities.
