JAPAN - Fukushima Governor Yuhei Sato has criticised the way the central government went about issuing evacuation instructions for residents at a hearing by the Diet's Fukushima Nuclear Accident Independent Investigation Commission (NAIIC).
NAIIC summoned the governor as a witness in its hearing open to the public in Fukushima on Tuesday.
About the central government's evacuation instructions to residents near the Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power plant just after the crisis began, Sato said: "We had no prior notice. No grounds for the instructions were presented and the instructions were announced one after another. It was totally beyond us."
Sato's appearance at the hearing lasted about two hours.
Sato said the central government's declaration of a nuclear emergency was problematic, saying: "In drills, the central government was expected to declare an emergency within 30 minutes after receiving a report of the emergency from the power plant.
"But in this accident, the declaration was announced about 2-1/2 hours after receiving the report from Tokyo Electric Power Co. It was another hour later when the notice arrived at the prefectural government."
Sato apologised for the prefectural government having overlooked the arrival of data from the System for Prediction of Environmental Emergency Dose Information (SPEEDI) sent by the central government.
"We carelessly failed to notice. I apologise for having caused anxiety among prefectural residents," he said.
Sato admitted that the prefectural government's initial response had shortcomings of its own, saying: "There were organisational problems. I will review the point so that we will be able to act more properly [in a future emergency]."
NAIIC also decided Tuesday it will ask the central government to submit records of hearings by the government's investigation commission and other related documents.
At the beginning of his hearing, Sato criticised the central government while reading from a prepared text.
He continued speaking beyond the planned time limit of 20 minutes, and NAIIC Chairman Kiyoshi Kurokawa once asked the governor to stop speaking.
Sato expressed his strongest discontent with the central government over the evacuation instructions just after the crisis began.
Sato said: "I determined that if we waited for the central government to act, we could not have protected the safety of residents. So I asked residents in a two-kilometer radius of the plant to evacuate."
But soon after that, the central government instructed evacuation from a three-kilometer radius around the plant, later expanding the range to 10 kilometers and then 20 kilometers.
"Evacuation instructions for a radius of more than 10 kilometres were not assumed in the nuclear disaster prevention plan," Sato said.
"About 80,000 residents in that radius and other parts of the prefecture who felt anxious were forced to evacuate to places both inside and outside of the prefecture."
Sato also said, "It was extremely regrettable that the central government could not completely fulfill its role of sending out radiation monitoring information and the release of some data was delayed."
Sato revealed that before the accident, he was told by the central government and TEPCO that the nuclear plant's safety was secured by multiple protection systems.
About the fact that the prefectural government deleted SPEEDI data sent from the central government after the accident and thus could not utilise the data for evacuation instructions, Sato said, "We carelessly overlooked it."
But he added, "We made all possible efforts and took actions that put our lives in danger."
Some NAIIC members mentioned that prefectural residents had also expressed critical views of the prefectural government.
Sato gradually became cautious about speaking and asked for advice from prefectural government officials behind his seat on an increasing number of occasions.
One NAIIC member told Sato that a prefectural governor can decide to distribute stable iodine pills to prevent harm from radiation exposure even when the central government does not instruct it.
Sato only said, "The prefectural government did not distribute the medicine."
At one point, when Sato emphasized that "I'm reviewing the prefectural government's crisis management systems," some of the audience shouted, "Give a straight answer."
The questioning focused on a past development in which the prefectural government announced its decision to accept a plan for pluthermal operations in the No. 3 reactor of the Fukushima nuclear plant, using reprocessed fuel made from spent fuel rods, in August 2010.
One NAIIC member suggested that if the prefectural government had demanded that the central government take measures to protect against tsunami when it accepted the pluthermal plan, the accident might have been avoided.
Sato declined to answer in detail and only said, "I don't know," and "I have not confirmed it."
Though the governor criticised the central government's responses to the crisis, local government heads and residents who were evacuated voiced discontent toward responses of not only the central government but also the prefectural government.
Mayor Toshitsuna Watanabe of Okuma, Fukushima Prefecture, a town accommodating part of the nuclear plant, said just after the start of the crisis, "The central government's crisis-management systems did not work."
Regarding the prefectural government's responses, the mayor said: "I wanted the prefectural government to provide correct information speedily. The prefectural government could have issued instructions about how to evacuate."
Mayor Yukiei Matsumoto of Naraha, Fukushima Prefecture, a town mostly inside the no-entry zone, agreed with Sato on the point that the Fukushima plant's off-site center, which should have served as its emergency base, "was in functional failure."
But the mayor also noted that the prefectural government mistakenly deleted SPEEDI data just after the start of the accident.
Matsumoto said, "The responsibility is heavy for the failure to quickly relay the radiation information about contamination conditions to municipal governments."
Local residents in Fukushima Prefecture also voiced criticisms.
Nagae Suzuki, 36, a nurse in Minami-Soma, Fukushima Prefecture, said about a hospital where she worked, "I wanted the prefectural government to take initiative in assisting nurses and other medical workers."
