KYOTO - A taxi equipped with a video camera recorded the progress of a minivan after it killed seven people and injured 11 in a Kyoto intersection Thursday and until it crashed into a utility pole, killing the driver.
Witnesses said the minivan driven by Shingo Fujisaki, 30, ran a red light at the intersection.
After the video recording was voluntarily turned over to the Kyoto prefectural police by the taxi driver, they began analyzing it for clues to how the accident happened.
The taxi had entered the intersection immediately before Fujisaki's minivan when the light was still yellow, the video showed.
The taxi driver proceeded, unaware of what had happened behind him.
About 150 meters north of the site of the accident at the intersection of Yamato-oji-dori and Shijo-dori, the minivan clipped the taxi as it sped by.
The video clip showed the traffic light in the northbound lane at the intersection turned from green to yellow when the taxi was passing through.
As the minivan was running behind the taxi at that time, the footage backs up many witnesses' accounts that the minivan ran the red light.
The video also showed the minivan speeding away from the taxi after clipping it, passing another taxi and driving by two pedestrians without losing speed, although its brake lights came on momentarily.
The video shows the minivan smash into a utility pole on the right side of the street at 1:08:39 p.m. after the driver apparently steered to the right to avoid hitting another van ahead.
Investigators determined the minivan drove about 40 meters in less than three seconds after clipping the taxi.
Judging from the damage to the minivan, police estimate it was traveling at about 60 kph when it hit the pole. They plan to determine speed more accurately based on the video clip.
Fujisaki was reportedly suffering from epilepsy, but the police believe he was conscious and steering the vehicle when he entered the intersection, judging from the path the minivan took as it avoided other cars and the fact that the brakes were momentarily applied.
