YANGON - Myanmar's president held his first meeting with Karen rebels on Saturday, officials said, as the government intensifies efforts to bolster peace with the country's oldest insurgent group.
An end to ethnic minority conflicts, as well as alleged human rights abuses involving government troops, is a key demand of the international community, which is considering lifting a raft of sanctions to reward Myanmar.
President Thein Sein met delegates from the Karen National Union (KNU) "this morning in Naypyidaw", according to a government official who asked not to be named, following negotiations with ministers in Yangon on Friday.
"It was the first meeting between the president and the KNU leaders," another official with links to the peace talks told AFP.
The official said six delegates - including members of the armed wing of the group - were flown "by special flight" to the new capital Naypyidaw for the landmark meeting, which lasted about 90 minutes.
The KNU members are due to meet opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi on Sunday, a week after she swept to victory in historic by-elections with her party - seen as the culmination of burgeoning reforms by the government.
Those changes, brought about since direct military rule ended last year, also saw the regime sign a ceasefire in January with the KNU, whose armed wing has been battling the government since 1949.
Myanmar has also signed a number of similar deals with other armed rebels. But ongoing fighting in northern Kachin state which has displaced tens of thousands of people has cast a shadow over the peace efforts.
Authorities postponed the by-elections in three constituencies in the state, citing security concerns, and rights groups have claimed serious abuses continue in the area.
A commitment to end ethnic conflict across Myanmar was included in the 13-point peace plan negotiated by the KNU and government officials on Friday.
Both sides agreed a code of conduct to ensure civilian safety, while "necessary plans will be made for resettlement of internally displaced persons".
Demining will also be undertaken, according to a joint statement released late Friday.
Myanmar, which has been gripped by civil war in parts of the country since independence in 1948, has long considered the KNU to be an illegal organisation. Much of the group's leadership is based in Thailand.
The KNU said on Thursday it was keen to assess Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD) party and its commitment to reconciliation efforts during Sunday's talks, which will be the democracy icon's first important discussions as an elected politician.
The Nobel peace laureate is largely well-regarded in minority areas, but she is also seen as a member of an ethnic elite.
Vast numbers of villagers in Karen state have been forced to flee the fighting and tens of thousands of these refugees live in camps across the border in Thailand.
