The Tokyo High Court on Thursday decided to grant a retrial and stay of execution for a Nepalese man convicted of killing a female employee of Tokyo Electric Power Co. in 1997.
In the decision handed down to Govinda Prasad Mainali, 45, who is now serving a life sentence for the crime, presiding Judge Shoji Ogawa said, "Suspicion has arisen that another person might have murdered the woman and it is assumed a guilty ruling would not have been handed down if the results of this analysis had been presented in the trial."
The remarks were based on a fresh DNA analysis conducted for a high court hearing over a demand for a retrial.
The Tokyo High Public Prosecutors Office lodged an objection to the high court's decision later Thursday. The appeal over the stay of execution was rejected, but the objection to the retrial is still under consideration.
The high public prosecutors office then decided to release Mainali.
Mainali, who was serving time at a Yokohama prison, was transferred to the Tokyo Regional Immigration Bureau's facility in Yokohama later in the day, as he was illegally staying in the country and procedures to deport him are expected to begin soon.
If the high court decision is finalized, Mainali's case would be the eighth retrial after World War II for a person sentenced to death or life in prison.
There will likely be criticism of the fact that DNA analysis of important evidence, which led to the high court's decision Thursday, was not conducted during the investigation or the trial.
On March 19, 1997, a 39-year-old managerial employee at TEPCO was found dead in an apartment in Shibuya Ward, Tokyo. Two months later, Mainali, who lived in a building adjacent to the apartment, was arrested. The guilty ruling finalized by the Supreme Court said Mainali strangled the woman at around midnight on March 8 and robbed her of about \40,000 in cash.
The new DNA analysis results in July last year showed the DNA of semen left inside the victim's body matched that of a third person, dubbed "X." DNA matching that of X was also found in body hair left at the crime scene, in a bloodstain on the woman's coat and in saliva on the victim's body. The results did not show any evidence to suggest Mainali was the perpetrator.
The high court decision said these DNA results are "particularly important" as new evidence. It discussed whether a retrial should be held in line with criteria stipulated in the so-called Shiratori decision by the Supreme Court in 1975. The top court said a retrial could be held if reasonable doubt existed over a guilty ruling after a comprehensive examination of old and new evidence.
The Shiratori decision refers to the top court's ruling in an incident known as the Shiratori case, in which Kazuo Shiratori, who was the chief inspector of the Hokkaido police, was shot to death in 1952.
Thursday's high court decision said new evidence "showed a possibility that X might have punched the woman and made her bleed after contact with her at the crime scene, causing the blood to stick to her coat."
The finalized conviction said Mainali was guilty because his DNA was detected in semen left on a condom found in the toilet of the apartment and he also had a key to the place.
However, as the high court pointed out, "The possibility that the perpetrator left the condom on the day of the crime is not high."
"Furthermore, the possibility that the woman, who knew the apartment was unlocked, took X into the apartment cannot be denied," it added.
The high court then concluded, "Reasonable doubt has arisen over the conviction, which said it was difficult to assume a third person entered the room with the woman, and the [DNA] test results are clear evidence indicating a not guilty verdict should be handed down [to Mainali]."
Throughout the trials, Mainali denied the charge. The Tokyo District Court first handed down a not guilty ruling in April 2000. Following an appeal, the Tokyo High Court overturned the decision and ruled that he was guilty and sentenced him to life in prison in December that year. The guilty ruling was finalized at the Supreme Court in 2003.
In a hearing at the high court over the demand for a retrial, which began in March 2005, the Tokyo High Public Prosecutors Office examined a total of 84 pieces of evidence.
