She told her neighbour she was getting married and promised to invite her to her wedding. Two days later, Miss Elsie Lie was found dead in her flat.
Her body was covered in slash marks, and certain parts were allegedly gouged out and flung out of the window from a flat she was renting at Block 633, Jurong West Street 65.
Among some of the grisly evidence found when police combed the area on Saturday morning were Miss Lie's eyes. Paramedics pronounced her dead at 7.30am.
Her boyfriend, divorcee Gabriel Lee Haw Ling, 38, has been charged with Miss Lie's murder.
Before her death, Miss Lie had told her ground-floor neighbour, Mrs Carol Ng, 39, on Friday that she was engaged.
Mrs Ng told The New Paper: "She was clutching a teddy bear when the two of them came to my house on Thursday.
"She told me that had just come back from Genting and she showed off her engagement ring."
The couple had not been seen the past two months. But on Friday night, Miss Lie suddenly returned home.
According to the evening daily, the couple had been fighting from 6.30pm. They stopped when the police arrived around 1am, but resumed half an hour later.
During that time, tenants of the unit which is shared with other occupants - a Bangladeshi couple and another Bangladeshi man - heard moans and groans coming from the room.
It is unclear as to what happened from then till around 6am when the Bangladeshi tenant returned home to find blood trails near the bedroom. He alerted his other tenants, the Bangladeshi couple, who then called the police.
Police found a knife and several household items but did not appear to be the murder weapons, reported Shin Min Daily News.
About 20 bags of evidence were taken away, including Miss Lie's blood-soaked mattress.
It was only until Lee was charged with murder did Miss Lie's mother, Madam Chen Yoke Mooi, 49, find out that her daughter had a boyfriend.
Madam Chen said that Miss Lie had moved out to show she was independent. It was unclear how she met Lee but they had moved in to the rented room three months ago.
She said: "I don't know about their relationship. I've never seen him before."
Miss Lie's father, carpenter Lie Yong Song, 58, said that she used to have a boyfriend a long while ago.
"In the past, she had a boyfriend and she would bring him home, but that was a long time ago. I have never met this guy, or even head of him; she has never brought him home," said Mr Lie.
The Straits Times reported that the last time the father and daughter met was on March 25, when she visited her family's flat, also in Jurong West.
Miss Lie is the eldest of three children - she had two younger brothers, a full-time national serviceman and the other, a student.
She had dropped out of school in her second year at Jurong Junior College and worked as a site administrator at Jurong International.
Miss Lie's family told The Straits Times they had not seen the extent of her injuries. A report in The New Paper stated that her body was bandaged up.
All they had to identify Miss Lie was her face, said her father.
Lee is scheduled to appear in court on April 5, following a psychiatric assessment.
