They installed skimming devices and intercepted data from ATM cards.
With a laptop, the data was extracted and sent via e-mail to a syndicate based in Malaysia.
Yesterday, two men who were part of the syndicate were sentenced to a total of six years of jail each, backdated to Jan 14.
Both faced four charges each. The prosecution proceeded with three of the charges and one was taken into consideration during sentencing.
Malaysians Loke Siew Fei, 27, and Hng Gaik Chin, 39, both had two counts of engaging in a conspiracy with others to intercept the magnetic strip stored on ATM cards inserted into DBS and UOB ATM machines via the installation of ATM skimming devices.
They also faced a count of possessing skimming machines and implements with intent for false ATM cards to be made.
According to court papers, Hng installed a skimming device onto a DBS ATM machine at Bugis Village on Jan 11 this year at about 3pm. He also installed a pinhole camera near the keypad to film users keying in their personal identification numbers (PIN).
Loke waited nearby.
At about 5pm on the same day, Hng collected the skimmer and camera from the ATM machine.
Then, at a room in Kim Tian Hotel, Loke transferred the skimmed data to a laptop and sent the data via e-mail to the syndicate.
During that period of time, more than 200 transactions involving 100 accounts had taken place.
As the data was "not good", the duo went to a UOB ATM machine in Sims Avenue the next day at about 3.55pm to test the skimmer.
Investigations showed that no UOB customer accounts were abused. The duo were arrested soon after at the hotel room.
Senior District Judge See Kee Oon stressed that "deterrence and prevention are key considerations" during sentencing, in view of public interest. He agreed with the main aggravating factors highlighted by prosecution, such as how the accused carried out the offences diligently, "to the extent of testing out the skimmer", and that the "devices were designed to appear as part of an ATM to avoid detection".
