MALAYSIA - A soldier from the Terendak army camp, here, was sentenced to a total of 104 years' jail after he pleaded guilty to 13 counts of burglary and theft.
Lance Corporal Norazlan Kamarulbaharin, 32, of Jalan Meranti 2, Taman Sayang Selasih, Klebang Besar, however, will serve a maximum 14 years in jail after the court ordered that the sentences run concurrently.
Sessions Court judge Zaharah Hussain ordered that the soldier be given two strokes of the rotan, too.
Norazlan pleaded guilty to breaking into homes in Klebang and Batang Tiga, here, between Nov 26, 2009 and March 21 this year where the losses were RM45,899 (S$18,791).
In eight of the charges, all committed in eight different houses in Taman Sayang Selasih, Norazlan admitted to stealing a laptop, digital camera, home theatre system, three television sets, an iPad, RM8,000, jewellery, DVD player, a pair of shoes, two boxes of cosmetics, two Rolex watches and a Crocodile watch, all totalling RM31,199.
For the offences in Taman Cenderawasih, Norazlan pleaded guilty to two charges of breaking into and stealing a LCD television, five watches and a gold ring.
Norazlan also admitted to three separate charges of breaking into houses in Taman Muhibbah, Taman Pasir Emas and Taman Cempaka where he carted away two LCD television sets, a laptop, a pair of binoculars, a digital camera, an iPhone, 25 watches, 30 bottles of perfumes, two school bags, a gold ring, and cash.
Deputy public prosecutors Haslida Isamail, Mahmoodah Abd Latiff, Nor Shazwani Ishak and Mahadi Abdul Jumaat prosecuted while Norazlan was represented by Norfazlinda Alimad from the National Legal Aid Foundation.
In mitigation, Norfazlinda said the accused had a mother who was stricken with cancer and that he was also supporting two nephews who were staying with him.
"The guilty plea has also saved the court time and money."
However, Mahadi urged the court to impose the maximum sentence due to the frequency of the crimes and that Norazlan had tarnished the name of the army.
