KUALA LUMPUR - Arsonists struck at the Sungai Bonus People's Housing Project (PPR) in Setapak here early yesterday, destroying at least 20 vehicles.
This is the eighth incident involving the torching of vehicles at low-cost flats in the Klang Valley since the beginning of the year and police believe all the attacks could be related.
In yesterday's incident, arsonists destroyed 16 motorcycles, a Nissan Grand Livinia, a Proton Saga and a one-tonne lorry.
Victim Nawer Abdul Razak, 56, was asleep on the seventh floor of Block G when he heard a commotion at 3.30am. He looked out the window and saw some motorcycles parked in front of his block on fire.
"I rushed down and discover my Yamaha Lagenda on fire.
"Everyone was bringing buckets of water to douse the flames, but it was too late."
Personnel from the Fire and Rescue Department arrived at the scene at 3.40am and took 20 minutes to put out the fire.
Another victim, Shaik Khusairi Shaik Daud, said he lost two motorcycles in the fire.
"I had just come back from Danau Kota and saw the fire as my friend was dropping me off," he said, adding that he tried to save his motorcycles but it was too late.
Yesterday's incident was the latest in a series of arson attacks at low-cost flats recently.
On April 23, 22 motorcycles were set ablaze at the Sri Selangor flats in Jalan San Peng.
The fire also damaged four flat units. The attack was a result of a fight between two gangs at a playground nearby several minutes before the incident.
Two motorcycles and a Perodua Myvi were torched by thugs on April 22 at the Sri Tioman flats in Taman Melati.
Four hours later, a second incident was reported at Bandar Baru Sentul involving six motorcycles.
On Feb 13, 12 motorcycles were destroyed in a fire at Block D of the Seri Semarak PPR. A car was also partly damaged.
On Jan28, 26 motorcycles and a taxi were torched at a parking lot in the Desa Mentari flats in Petaling Jaya.
The incident was believed to have been triggered by a conflict between two individuals.
City Criminal Investigation Department deputy chief Assistant Commissioner Khairi Ahrasa said a special task force would be set up to investigate the arson incidents.
