His online videos refer to movie thrillers.
Did his inspiration for the macabre act come from Hollywood movies?
Or was it a violent video game? Was Chinese student Lin Jun his only victim?
Questions more than answers are swirling around Luka Rocco Magnotta.
The fact that 29-year-old Magnotta, a porn actor, allegedly filmed himself killing and dismembering 33-year-old Mr Lin and made a series of other online videos, further suggests a fascination with film.
A 1996 video game, Ripper, is thought to have inspired the Canadian. In it, actor Christopher Walken plays a serial killer called Vince Magnotta who is addicted to butchering his victims and terrorising New York in the year 2040.
Movies referenced by Magnotta in his various online appearances include thrillers Basic Instinct and American Psycho.The music playing in the background of the horrific Montreal murder video is from the 2000 serial killer movie American Psycho.
In the video, Magnotta appears to be filming himself killing Mr Lin on the night of May 24-25 with a pickaxe, to New Order song's True Faith, which plays during the opening credits of American Psycho, AP reported.
In another telling link, the Canadian is reported to have used the pseudonym Tramell when boarding a Berlin-bound bus in France, the same surname as Sharon Stone's character in Basic Instinct.
A police spokesman gave a clearer glimpse into the world of Magnotta, saying that the gay porn star was found to have 70 different active Facebook accounts, the Daily Mail reported. At the time of his capture, Magnotta had uploaded pictures and videos onto 20 different websites using various aliases.
A chillingly direct Tinseltown link is also being probed: Canadian police say they are studying whether he could have been responsible for a grisly killing near the iconic Hollywood sign in Los Angeles, US.
The head, hands and feet of Mr Hervey Medellin, 66, dismembered like the Chinese student, were found in the Hollywood Hills in January, on a hiking trail leading up to the sign.
Police "know that Magnotta was on the US West Coast" around the time of the killing, Montreal police spokesman Ian Lafreniere said, though it is not clear if he stopped in LA.
"He was a time bomb waiting to explode."
He lived in a sick fantasy world, the fallout of the terrible childhood he had in a Toronto suburb. Luka Rocco Magnotta, the 29-year-old alleged cannibal, was born Eric Clinton Newman to Miss Anna Yourkin and MrDonald Newman in Canada.
His parents were just teenagers when he was born and split up soon after.
He was then brought up mainly by his domineering grandmother, Madam Phyllis Yourkin. Beatings were common and Magnotta - the eldest of three children - took the brunt of her temper.
Desperate to fit in with his schoolmates in the suburb of Scarborough, he spun outlandish tales, The Mirror reported.
But his classmates mocked him.
His upbringing was brutal - and at least one of his relatives always suspected there was something seriously wrong.
An aunt, who asked not to be identified, told The Mirror: "He is a nut job. He was a time bomb waiting to explode."
When caught out by his lies, there were flashes of violent temper - at 12, he hurled a chair at a teacher.
As he entered his teens, he had overtly effeminate mannerisms and boasted of his sexual conquests. Around the same time, he moved with Madam Yourkin to Lindsay, Ontario.
His secondary schoolmates there remember him as a kid who constantly changed his hair colour - from jet-black to peroxide blond.
But his aunt feared for his mental health.
"I didn't trust him. He is mentally ill. He has delusions of grandeur. He concocts stories (that) become fact in his mind," she said.
He is not the only member of his family to get into trouble.
A 21-year-old cousin, Louis Yourkin - who as a child looked up to Magnotta - is in police custody on drug and gun possession charges.
At 19, Magnotta left the family and returned to Toronto. Three years later, he had his first brush with the law.
He was accused of stealing a girlfriend's credit card and using it to buy TVs, DVD players and phones.
He was sentenced to nine months' jail but charges that he sexually assaulted the woman were dropped.
