It was a robbery that involved dangerous manoeuvres, a car chase,and violent men wielding parangs.
It ended with the victim being slashed and the SUV turning turtle.
The drama unfolded on Thursday afternoon in Johor Baru's business district.
Shin Min Daily News reported that the victim, a man in his 40s, was driving the Singapore-registered SUV. There were friends on board with him.
The victim, who is Malaysian Chinese, lives in Johor Baru.
When he drove into a back lane behind some shop houses, he noticed a stationary brown SUV blocking his way. Then, a Proton bearing a Kuala Lumpur-licence plate swerved into the lane. The victim was sandwiched.
Speaking to the media from a private hospital, the victim recalled: "Immediately after (I entered the back lane), two cars outflanked me. Men rushed out from the vehicles and smashed my car windows."
Five of the eight robbers wielded parangs.
A chef, who wanted to be known as Ami, was working in the kitchen of one of the shophouses and witnessed the incident. He was holding a rolling pin, which he threw at the robbers. It hit one of them.
Ami, 27, said his action angered the group. One man turned round and scolded him. Ami said: "He shouted at me not to interfere."
The chef heeded the warning. Though he was holding a vegetable peeling knife as well, he knew he was ill-equipped to fight against the robbers, with their parangs.
Malaysian newspaper Sin Chew Daily reported that the robbers were Indonesians. They grabbed two briefcases from the victim's SUV before fleeing the scene.
But the victim fought back.He gave chase in his SUV - unsuccessfully.
After a 500m drive, the victim tried to overtake the robbers but collided with another car at the side of the road, causing his SUV to overturn.
That was when he saw a white car, with no licence plate. The robbers abandoned their own SUV and dashed into the waiting Harrier.
Still, the victim didn't give up.
He grabbed a wooden club from his SUV and approached the fleeing robbers.
That proved to be a painful decision.
Infuriated, one of the robbers slashed the victim's right arm, tearing the ligament in his middle finger. The victim also suffered a broken bone in his ring finger.
The robbers managed to escape, leaving a trail of destruction. There were pools of blood on the road and blood stains on the wooden club.
Residents in the area sent the injured victim to hospital.
Johor Baru south district police director Zainudin confirmed that the suitcases contained large amounts of cash from two money changers.
The exact amount is unknown. It was also unclear where the cash was being sent.
