He slammed his shoulder against his teacher.
Now he's in court, charged with using criminal force, after the teacher lodged a police report.
The incident happened at about 11am on July 7, 2010, at a school in the North .
The teacher, 37, was standing in the school compound and speaking to a student when the boy, then 15, walked towards her and deliberately slammed his shoulder against hers. He then walked away.
The teacher called out to him, telling him to stop, but he ignored her and walked on.
That night, the teacher reported the matter to the police.
On Wednesday, the teen was charged with using criminal force on the teacher with the intent to deter her from discharging her duty as a public servant.
He cannot be named since he is a minor.
The teen was also charged with cheating for using a counterfeit $10,000 note to buy three iPhones from a man.
The incident happened at about 10pm on May 21 last year.
The boy, then 16, and three of his friends had gone to an MRT station to buy the iPhones from the man for $2,750.
When the man tried to deposit the $10,000 note later, he was told by the bank that the note was not of legal tender and holds no monetary value.
The boy, now 17, pleaded guilty to both charges on Wednesday afternoon.
His lawyer said in the boy's mitigation that the youth has shown genuine remorse, shame and regret for the offences.
He is now seriously committed to his studies and is determined to successfully complete his GCE O-level course, his lawyer added.
The boy was accompanied in court by his parents and sister. His father works as a mould designer and his mother is a housewife.
"At the time of the offences... being an immature youth, he did not realise the seriousness of the offences. The police arrest and court appearances have been a wake-up call for him," the mitigation plea said.
His lawyer urged the judge to call for a probation report, stressing that his client is "extremely remorseful".
And to show his remorse, the boy's parents will be making full compensation of $2,750 to the man who sold him the phones, his lawyer said.
In view of the boy's undertaking to make restitution and that he is still young and a first-time offender, District Judge Ng Peng Hong, called for a probation report to be submitted in three weeks' time.
Sentencing is scheduled for June 27.
