KUALA LUMPUR - Thirteen -year-old Noor Fathanah Misnawi, who was stabbed to death by a knife-wielding man near Kampung Wira Damai in Batu Caves, here, on Saturday night, was just at the wrong place at the wrong time.
Father Miswani Mohamad, 55, said Noor Fathanah, the youngest of four siblings, and sister Noor Fadhilah, 15, as well as a friend had arrived at the pasar malam to buy drinks when the incident occurred at 8.15pm.
"A man suddenly ran past her after he, too, had been stabbed by another man several times. The second man also ran past her, chasing after the first man.
"It was only later that she realised she had been stabbed when she felt a pain under her armpit," he said at the Selayang Hospital mortuary yesterday.
Noor Fadhilah quickly rushed home to inform their father.
Miswani, in his haste to get to his wounded daughter, did not even stop to put on shoes or slippers.
"I ran to the place barefooted as fast as I could. When I reached there, I saw Noor Fathanah lying unconscious in a pool of blood.
"I rushed her to a clinic, about 150m away. The doctor checked her pulse and told me that she wouldn't be able to make it.
"Twenty minutes later, the doctor pronounced her dead. I felt like collapsing. I couldn't take the news as it was too sudden and heartbreaking."
The 55-year-old added: "I understand that it was accidental, but it's sad that no matter how careful we are, we can't stop these things from happening.
"She was the closest to me among all the children."
Noor Fathanah's aunt, who declined to be named, described the Form One student of SMK Sungai Kertas as shy and homely.
"She preferred to stay home than going out with friends.
"Two weeks before the incident, she had told Noor Fadhilah that she felt like she was going to die soon. Her sister was surprised. I guess now we understand."
Gombak police chief Assistant Commissioner Abdul Rahim Abdullah said the first man who had also been stabbed was Mohammad Hasir, 31, from Indonesia.
He said the second man had tried to attack Mohammad again while he was running, but instead stabbed Noor Fathanah.
He managed to get to Mohammad and stab him again.
The victim succumbed to his injuries at Selayang Hospital shortly after he was sent there.
Initial investigations revealed that Noor Fathanah, of Kampung Wira Damai, had no connections with Mohammad.
"The attack was done out of spite. The suspect had had disagreements with Mohammad for several months and that led to the murder," Rahim said.
"We believe that Noor Fathanah was there at the wrong time."
Noor Fathanah's body was sent to Selayang Hospital for a post-mortem before it was buried at the Batu Muda Muslim cemetery here yesterday.
