He has appeared as an Ewok in Star Wars and a goblin in the Harry Potter films.
But now, this dwarf is facing jail time after indecently exposing himself to a school girl on a train. Nicholas Read, who stands at 1.34m tall, sat next to the 17-year-old girl as he performed an indecent act in October 2010.
Read, 40, who played an Ewok in the 1983 film Star Wars: Return Of The Jedi and a Gringotts goblin in 2001's Harry Potter And The Philosopher's Stone, had drunk half a bottle of gin and was feeling "merry".
He then took a picture of her friend's horrified reaction on his mobile phone.
The court heard how it was the second time that the actor had been caught flashing on a train. Read had covered his lap with a bowler hat he had been wearing and fondled himself, reported the Daily Mail.
He denied this, claiming that the hat was not on the overhead racks because he couldn't reach them.
The girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was travelling on a train from London when Read took the aisle seat beside her.
Speaking from behind a screen, she said:"He placed his hat on his crotch. I saw a movement and I didn't know whether to believe it. I looked in the reflection of the window and saw his hand moving under the hat.
"He tried to catch my attention, tilting his hat up, looking at his crotch area and then looking at me a few times."
The behaviour continued for about 30 to 40 minutes of the 55-minute journey.
The girl, now 18, said she was too scared to speak, fearing he was going to touch her.
She was met by her boyfriend and they reported the incident to a British Transport police officer,who arranged for Read to be arrested at his destination in Sheffield.
The jury heard that Read was previously convicted for indecent assault in 2004 when, after a New Year party with his Snow White pantomime cast, he drunkenly climbed into bed with the sleeping stage manager and his girlfriend.
He then put the woman's hand on his genitals. Read will be sentenced on July 13, reported The Sun.
