BEIJING - A Chinese student who was dismembered in a murder allegedly perpetrated by a Canadian porn actor was not his lover, media reports quoted his friends as saying Tuesday, amid rumours the two were dating.
The Chinese reports said Lin Jun, a "polite" and popular 33-year-old, was in a relationship with another man when he met his death, allegedly at the hands of Luka Rocco Magnotta who was arrested in Berlin on Monday after a frantic global manhunt.
The case has drawn worldwide attention after a video purportedly showing the murder surfaced online, showing a man repeatedly stabbing another man with an ice pick and dismembering him, as a song from the film "American Psycho" plays in the background.
Lin reportedly came from Wuhan city in central China's Hubei province, and was said to have gone to Montreal to study at Concordia University's School of Engineering and Computer Science last July.
Zhang Chaoyi, a friend, was quoted as saying by the Global Times newspaper that he had a lot of "friends and admirers." He denied reports that Lin and Magnotta - a 29-year-old dubbed the "Canadian Psycho" - were lovers.
"He couldn't have been in a relationship or living together as a lover with Magnotta, since all his stuff was found in his apartment in Canada after he was killed," Zhang said.
He added that Lin had been in a relationship with a man who was "on his way to Canada."
The Beijing News quoted another friend known as Shan as saying that Lin may merely have wanted to talk to someone with a similar background - possibly referring to his homosexuality - despite the fact he already had a boyfriend.
Lin - a handsome, trendy-looking man - called himself "big bad egg Justin" on his Sina weibo account, China's Twitter-like microblogging site, where he had more than 17,500 followers.
He was last active on his account on May 16, and his postings were mostly about his daily life, weather, food and cat.
But some were darker. He titled one photo of an empty train carriage posted on his account on April 22 "The Midnight Cannibal Train", in a strange premonition of his grizzly death.
Local authorities told AFP his family had been granted passports to go to Canada.
"Lin Jun's parents and younger sister got the passports yesterday morning, but I don't know whether they have gone or not," an official from the Hubei public security bureau - who refused to be named - said.
The murder first came to light last week when police in Canada said a human foot had been sent to the headquarters of the country's ruling Conservative Party.
