Masquerading as the "Chinese God of Hell," John (not his real name), then 14, made two girls aged 15 and 14 perform oral sex on him and his friends four years ago.
Then he raped them on separate occasions.
John was sentenced to corrective training yesterday.
He had pleaded guilty to two charges of rape and two charges of sexual assault by penetration. Eight more charges were taken into consideration.
The court heard that John, the girls and three male friends used to meet up after school to spend time together at HDB void decks.
John used to frequent a Chinese Temple in Bukit Batok where he allegedly witnessed people being possessed by "Chinese Gods".
He spoke to three male friends about what he had seen.
When one of the friends revealed his interest in one of the girls, John suggested that they trick the girl by pretending to be possessed by "Chinese Gods".
To convince the girls, John and another friend would pretend to be possessed and use joss sticks to burn off a tattoo on one of their fingers.
Sometime in February or March 2008, John called the friends over to his home. He took them into his bedroom and locked the door.
John then pretended he was possessed by the "Chinese God of Hell" and started jumping around. His male friends joined in.
John next asked the girls to take off their clothes and stand naked in front of them. 'Gods' would harm them
When told that the "Chinese Gods" would harm her and her friends if she did not do as told, the 15-year-old girl agreed, and upon his instruction, performed oral sex on him.
He proceeded to rape her, without using a condom.
In March 2008, John and another boy ran into the 14-year-old girl.
John then pretended to be possessed and said the "Chinese God of Hell" wanted to have sex with her.
The "Chinese God" would hurt all her friends if she refused, he said.
So she lay down on the floor as instructed, taking off her clothes, and he raped her.
In March or April 2008, John met his three friends and the two girls at a staircase landing, and told the first victim, the 15-year-old girl, to get money for them.
While she was away, John and his friends again pretended to be possessed.
One of the friends told the 14-year-old to perform oral sex on all four of them.
For his offences, Deputy Public Prosecutor Kavita Uthrapathy urged the court to impose a jail term with caning.
Defence counsel Josephus Tan, who is representing John pro bono under the Criminal Legal Aid Scheme, said a psychiatric assessment showed that John had low intelligence, and pleaded guilty at the earliest opportunity.
With reformative training, John could be rehabilitated, he said.
John separately faces a number of traffic charges from April this year, including underage driving and hit-and-run related offences.
