KLANG, Malaysia - An unemployed woman who inserted crushed cili padi into her boyfriend daughter's private parts was sentenced to a total of 28 years imprisonment by the Sessions Court.
Shalina Sundiri Abdullah, 42, who pleaded guilty to five charges of abusing the girl, however, will serve only eight years in prison as judge Siti Noraida Sulaiman ordered for the sentences to run concurrently.
Shalina also admitted to inserting the wooden handle of a mop into the then 13-year-old girl's vagina, hitting her buttocks with a piece of wood, pouring hot water on her and beating her with a rubber hose.
The offences were committed at No 8-15, Block E, Perdana Villa Apartment, Jalan Sungai Jati, Taman Sentosa, here, between Dec 25, 2010 and early March last year.
Shalina was arrested on May 7 last year.
The girl's biological father, who is separated from her mother, also pleaded guilty to a charge of abusing his daughter by using a piece of wood and caused physical injury on her at the same place and time.
The 40-year-old lorry driver was sentenced to four years' jail.
The court was told that the victim stayed with her father and his live-in girlfriend (Shalina) during the holidays in December 2010.
She was made to do house chores from 7am to 9pm daily and only given rice with salt and tap water.
She was beaten with a piece of wood as punishment for not doing the chores and cili padi was inserted into her private parts, purportedly for going out of the house.
At the end of April 2011, Shalina poured hot water on the girl's back and thighs for drinking iced water against her orders.
The girl was sent to Hospital Tengku Ampuan Rahimah's emergency ward on May 6, 2011 where doctors found severe burn marks on her body and an old hymen tear.
DPP Nurul Maisarah Kamal said the victim had suffered physical torture as well as sexual abuse.
"These will leave a permanent effect on her. Injuries can heal but the scars will remain. I plead for an appropriate sentence against the accused," she said.
Shalina was sentenced to six years on the charge of inserting cili padi into the girl's vagina, eight years for sticking the mop handle into the victim's private parts, three years for hitting her with a piece of wood, eight years for pouring hot water and three years for beating her with the hose.
