He was a deputy public prosecutor for seven years. Then, he set up his own law practice in the 1980s.
On Friday, the lawyer of almost 30 years found himself on the other side of the legal system.
Spencer Gwee Hak Theng, 59, was charged in court with having sex with an underage girl, who was 16 at the time of the offence.
He allegedly paid $300 for sexual services from a Vietnamese girl on July 19 last year at Four Chain View Hotel at 757, Geylang Road Lorong 39.
Gwee is out on $10,000 bail and his passport has been impounded. He will be back in court again on July 27.
If convicted, he can be jailed up to seven years or fined or both.
He is the last of a total of 11 men who have been charged in relation to a vice syndicate operated by a couple in Geylang.
The couple managed women from Vietnam who were flown into Singapore to work as prostitutes. (See report below.)
Gwee is the sole practitioner at his law firm, Spencer Gwee and Co., at Beach Road.
In an interview on Friday, he said that having to turn up in court to be charged was an embarrassing experience.
"It was an unpleasant experience you do not wish upon your greatest enemy. It gave me a few sleepless nights," he said.
Gwee said that he does not intend to plead guilty and will wait for advice from his lawyer, Mr Lawrence Ang Boon Kong.
He said that when he found out last week that he would be charged, it caught him by surprise.
"Last year, I was called up once or twice (by the police) and I gave a short statement. Then it fizzled out. I thought nothing would happen.
"Then suddenly, pong!" he said of finding out he was getting charged while gesturing that the news hit him hard.
He hired a lawyer, who asked for a deferment of the charge but was turned down.
Gwee is concerned that the charge will affect his business.
His passport has been impounded, but he said he needs it to travel to Hong Kong for business.
As he did not have the actual dates of his trip, he could not apply for permission from the court to travel overseas, he said.
In view of this, he said he would get a power of attorney to handle his business in Hong Kong.
He added: "I was a bit distressed because I have professional duties to discharge."
Gwee said that he wished he could have had "some time to do all these things so that it doesn't affect the discharge of my duties to my clients, which is my primary concern".
He added: "I want my clients to retain the prerogative to decide whether they want me to continue. I would never force them."
But amid his legal woes, the father of a 24-year-old daughter managed to find a silver lining.
Gwee had been living on his own since he and his wife got divorced in the mid-90s.
Despite their break-up, his ex-wife, a retired conveyancing lawyer who is 11 years younger than him, bailed him out on Friday.
He said: "We are still on pretty good terms with each other."
He hinted that disagreements and quarrels had led to their estrangement.
"When you are married, you are young, you quarrel over things... You may be a bit strong-headed, you just want your side of your argument so you clash," Gwee said.
"I didn't remarry because I think I had a very good wife. I couldn't find anybody as intelligent. She's a unique person."
When asked how his daughter is taking the news of his charge, he said: "The only thing that pains me from this whole episode is the amount of suffering and heartache I'm going to cause to people who matter to me.
"Sometimes you think about your daughter, you think about your wife. I just hope they can bear with the pain."
His defence lawyer, Mr Ang, was a former colleague whom he described as "very intelligent and very able".
Gwee said: "As you know, when you are in trouble, you always look for friends. I don't have many, but I think he is the character that's always eager to help."
They had lost touch, but "what a way to get in touch again", he remarked.
Gwee said that some lawyers slipped him "little notes" when he was in the Subordinate Courts on Friday.
He said: "All kinds of notes, all very supportive. You know you've got friends.
"It's fairly touching and you are in this happy state that despite your own difficulties, people are voicing support."
With a smile, he said: "Life goes on."
