PETALING JAYA - Less than 24 hours after Internet marketer Chin Xin-Ci was nearly abducted at the carpark of a shopping mall in Petaling Jaya, two women were robbed of RM80,000 (S$32,000) at the same place on Monday.
The two, who work at a Japanese goods store on the second floor of shopping mall The Curve, wanted to go to a bank on the ground floor to deposit the takings for the past three days.
They were about to enter the lift at 10.45am when two men came by and threw curry powder at their faces before grabbing the bag containing the RM80,000.
The men, who were not wearing masks, escaped in a blue Proton Wira parked outside the mall.
Deputy Police Superintendent Meor Hamdan Meor Mohamad said police have obtained a CCTV recording of the incident.
"The staff screamed for help and tried in vain to give chase as the suspects fled via the emergency staircase," he added.
The workers, who declined to be identified, said it was the first time that such an incident had occurred to them.
They also said that many people working at the mall were now afraid for their safety after the robbery and the attempted abduction.
Meanwhile, the police have obtained the photofits of the two men who had attacked Ms Chin at the shopping-mall carpark on Sunday.
"We hope the public can assist us in nabbing them," Supt Meor Hamdan told The Star on Wednesday, adding that that police had also obtained statements from Ms Chin and other witnesses in Sunday's incident.
The authorities are also searching for Ms Chin's car, which was stolen by the men.
Ms Chin, who related her ordeal on her Facebook account, said she was loading her shopping bags into the back seat of her boyfriend's car at the basement carpark of The Curve at 5.20pm.
Suddenly, she was slammed from behind with the car's rear door and had a meat cleaver pressed against her throat. She added that a man then covered her mouth with his hand and shoved her into the back seat.
A second man appeared and took her car keys and demanded her parking ticket before he started to drive her car. She managed to put up a fight before escaping as the car slowed at the carpark exit.
The Curve's management said it would continue to review its safety measures as the safety of its shoppers was of paramount importance.
Centre manager Jazmi Kamaruddin said The Curve provided a range of security measures, including foot patrols, and that its security officers also used motorcycles and buggies.
"We regret that this incident occurred. However, our priority is to work with the authorities to apprehend the perpetrators," he said in a statement yesterday.
