Alarming rumors of child abductions that have swept Hong Kong in recent weeks have turned out to be bogus. But experts say the stories reflect deep-rooted problems and spread so widely they risked plunging the city into a 'moral panic'. Simon Parry reports.
For any parent, the stories sweeping the internet were disturbing, frightening, and compelling. Children it seemed, were being abducted from the streets of Hong Kong in broad daylight by gangs intent on trafficking them.
By the end of last week, police said they had received 14 reports of suspected child abductions and attempted abductions since early February. Alarmingly, there were even rumors that the bodies of two dead children had been found.
Anxieties levels were ratcheted up when parents at elite La Salle school in Kowloon were sent letters warning them to be on their guard following an incident in which a man had approached three pupils as they left school.
Across the city, message boards and social networking sites were abuzz with new accounts of attempted or actual abductions, and fanciful and horrifying theories about children being trafficked to the mainland or even having theur organs removed for transplants.
After-school activities were cancelled by some parents, police were bombarded with cases of suspicious strangers approaching children going back weeks and even months, and a handful of better-off children reportedly found themselves with hired bodyguards taking them to school and back.
There was only one problem with the reports: Not all of them appeared to be a genuine case of abduction or attempted abduction. All of them, as far as police or anyone else in authority could ascertain, were at worst innocent and harmless misunderstandings.
So why did these terrifying but groundless stories circulate so quickly around Hong Kong? How did a wealthy, sophisticated and interconnected city become gripped by a series of rumors and half-truths that were from the outset preposterous and illogical?
Anthropologist Joseph Bosco of the Chinese University, an expert on urban legends and their sources, believes the scare was triggered by a combination of uneasy relations between Hong Kong people and mainlanders and unsatisfaction in the current administration.
The extent to which they spread, however, sends out a worrying signal about the current state of Hong Kiong society. "This is really starting to sound like a moral panic in Hong Kong."
A moral panice, he explained, is when a society becomes distracted with and obsessed by a particular issue to the extent that social order is threatened - even when there is little or no evidence to support the stories that trigger the panic.
The difference between a moral panic and an urban legend is the effect it has on everyday lives. "With urban myth, people won't be so excercised that they go out and start organising Facebook pages and petitions and where you end up with letters sent to children from schools as we have seen in this case," Bosco said.
"That's when you start to move beyond a regular rumour or urban legend to a moral panic. Children who would otherwise go to after-school activities find their parents decided it is too dangerous for them to do that. It is disruptive to children's education and activities. One of the major dangers too is of scapegoating where you have people who are innocent being accused of things - almost like a witch hunt."
The expression "moral panic" was coined in the 1970s but encompasses a range of incidents of hugely varying degrees of magnitude from the witch trials of the Middle Ages to the Stalinist purges of 1930s Russia.
The stories that circulate often have little obvious relation to the underlying cause. In a classic case in Taiwan, in February 1956, at a time when political tensions were running high, stories spread about a character called the "Taipei Slasher" who was allegedly attacking children with razor blades.
Even though there was never a single substantiated case, rumors of attacks spread across the island with ghoulish newspaper accounts punlished as far afield as Hong Kong oh how one child had died after being mutilated by the phantom attacker.
Hysteria climbed to a point where parents were terrified to let their children out alone and one woman was chased by a mob and handed over to the police when she accidentally poked an infant when opening her umbrella.
Eventually, in an echo of the current situation in Hong Kong, police announced in May 1956 that the "slasher" was a figment of the popular imagination. Of 21 cases, five were innocent false reports, seven self-inflicted cuts, eight caused by cuts from something other than razors.
The case of the "Taipei Slasher" and the way the story spread bears remarkable similarities to the current scare in Hong Kong, which began in March when rumors circulated about a group of mainlanders spotted carrying a struggling girl aged two or three on the MTR. They fled when chellenged by fellow travellers, leaving the child behind, according to the story.
Though untrue, the story triggered an avalanche or similar accounts - some dating back to the early February - in which claimed to have seen or heard of narrow escapes involving Hong Kong children and strangers.
Two mainland men were said to have been seen trying to abduct a girl from a children's indoor playground at Harbour City in Tsim Sha Tsui. Police traced the men involved and found the incident was an innocent misunderstanding.
A 10-year-old boy went missing from his home and turned up at the Lo Wu border checkpoint. Police say there was nothing suspicious about the case and no attempted abduction involved.
Police were inundated with alleged child abduction with alleged child abduction attempts, some dating back weeks, in Tai Wai, Tuen Mun, Mongkoj and at Disneyland. Then reports spread of an attempted abduction by a man who approached three boys outisde the elite La Salle School in Kowloon.
The rumors took a sinister turn at the end of last week when police were forced to reject allegations circulating online that they had tried to cover up the discovery of two dead children found in Hong Kong, the allegations, like all others, were completely groundless.
Bosco agreed. "there isn't a single incident that actually looks unusual," he said. "Most seem to understandings or incidents that people are reinterpreting later as being suspicious.
The fact that many stories circulating online went unreported in newspapers and on TV as reporters found them to be untrue may have paradoxically helped fuel the rumors.
"A minority of people became emotional about this and became more enraged precisely because it was not being discussed in the press and on TV and was only making marginal stories in the newspapers," Bosco said.
"These people became even more convinced there was some sort of official suppression of the story. It fed into the underlying fear that things were being controlled behind the scenes asnd we couldn't see it. That was one of the major things driving this."
As rumors spread, more and more people began reinterpreting previous events as lucky escapes from child abductions and reporting them to the police. "Our memories are constantly," Bosco said, "As people remember things that happened in the past they will pull them out and emphasis different aspects.
"Once these stories are out there, people reinterpret other events in the same light. They start to think 'Oh, that guy was behaving strangely. Maybe he was trying to kidnap the kid.' What begins as strange behaviour becomes an attempted abduction.
However unlikely and impractical it would be for people to abduct children from crowded places in Hong Kong to smuggle over the border to the mainland, people's willingness to believe the improbable if they want to shoulf not be uinderestimated.
"I talked to my cleaning lady about it and she was convinced the stories were true," said Bosco. "So I asked her 'how do you take someone from Hong Kong to the mainland without people noticing? She told me "It's easy. People smuggle cigarettes across the border all the time'.
"I said 'Yes but cigarettes don't scream and cry like a child would'. She replied 'Oh but they can give them drugs and putr them to sleep - It's not a problem ".
As well as rising tensions over the issue of mainland mothers, and general disquiet over the increasing number of mainlanders crossing the border. the current uncertainty over Hong Kong's future leadership played in the spread of the stories, Bosco believes.
"It suggests a frustraton with out institutions and leadership ," he said. "People don't feel like the institutions we have are properly reflecting the public interest and able to solve political practical problems.
"So the fear that situations are out of control or that situations are out of control or that things are being controlled behind the screen, these rumors travel around which all imply there are things going on we can't see that authorities don't want us to know about."
Priscilla Lui, former director of Against Child Abuse and a memeber of the Child Commission Alliance , said the spread of the abduction stories also highlighted a general lack of safeguards for children in Hong Kong.
"In Hong Kong, the prevention angle has been omitted," she said. "Children's welfare and rights have been neglected. "We should face rgus very squarely, knowing that problems like (child abductionA) do exist. Other countries are more alert and cautious to this and one of the reasons is that they attach a lot of importance to children - even one single child abduction or lose is a big thing.
"The child's perspective is not strong enough in our community. We have been urging for a Child Commission in Hong Kong. We have a youth commission , a women's commission and an elderly commission. But when we are urge for a Child Commission, we are told it would be a duplication of existing mechanisms."
Lui said one issue contributing the concerns that needed to be addressed was the large number of schoolchildren crossing the Hong Kong-mainland border for education. "These children are crossing the border so frequently and easily these days," she said.
"There are 9,000 children crossing the beorder to study and are urging concern for these concern for these groups because some are very young."
She called for police and officials to be as transparent and open as possible in presenting date and information on reports of child abductions to stop false stories spreading and said better education was needed for parents to look after children in the busy streets if Hong Kong.
"On the MTR and in the streets , parents are carrying children together with their shopping and it is so crowded," Lui said. "It is very easy for young children to be lost in the middle of all the hustle and bustle of the city. Alerting parents to that is important."
By the end oflast week, there were signs that the child abduction stories were beginning to abate, for now atleast. The damage they have left in their wake will take longer to evaluate, however, Bosco believes.
"Students from the mainland are completely disillusioned with Hong Kong over this. They are just devasted by this," said Bosco. They find it incredible that people could believer these stories and they feel very personally attacked by these kind of stories.
"Hong Kong needs to consider this if it wants to attract and retain talent. The people spreading the stories are sending a not very subtle message to people that they are not welcome here."
