Deputy Prime Minister Chalerm Yoobamrung yesterday announced two police drug busts that seized a total of 64.9 kilograms of crystal meth or "ice" and 40,000 yaba tablets worth Bt330 million (S$13.4 million).
In the first bust, police arrested four Malaysians and two Narathiwat residents allegedly along with 26kg of "ice", 25 grams of heroin and two sedans and one pickup truck.
The Malaysian suspects were Sahat Bin Kassim, 55, Abdul Rahim Bin Kassim, 45, Salawati binti Wagiyoh, 37, and Norzawati binti Ramli, 34. The two Thais were Yurisa Imeusa, 34, and Muhamad Nasusi Mayusoh, 31.
Following suspicions that Yurisa and her Malaysian husband Sahat Bin Kassim had transported and sold narcotics from Thailand to Malaysia, police officers allegedly watched the pair drive a pick-up truck from their home in Songkhla's Hat Yai district to meet with Muhamad and Norzawati binti Ramli near the Winstar Hotel in Hat Yai.
The couple handed over the pickup truck to Muhamad then drove home in a sedan, whose rear light compartments were modified to hide drugs. Police said when Abdul Rahim Bin Kassim and Salawati binti Wagiyoh removed the 26kg of "ice", they were arrested. A search also found heroin, Bt5.704 million in cash, and 773,290 MYR (S$317,000) cash in the house.
In the second drug bust, police arrested hill-tribal man Suthat Suayyeh, 24 and Mae Hong Son resident Bundit Hathaiworakan, 23, along with 40,000 yaba tablets and 38.9 kilograms of "ice". Police followed Suthat, who had no job but had money to cover expenses and afford many rooms, from his condominium in Bangkok's Soi Nawamin 123 until they found him making a delivery to Bundit.
Police subsequently seized 20,000 yaba tablets from Bundit, while the other police team allegedly found 20,000 yaba tablets and 38.9kgs of "ice" in Suthat's condominium room.
As police made more drug suspect arrests, dealers would kill each other to prevent implication, Chalerm said, claiming that police these days were not involved in drug trafficking, or they would face severe punishment.
He also urged police to check on night entertainment venues for drug dealing activities and close those refusing to co-operate with police.
Chalerm also commented on the attempt to arrest Democratic Karen Buddhist Army (DKBA) leader Maj-General Saw Lah Pwe, also known as Na Kham Mwe (Mr Moustache), who was on Thailand's list of 25 most-wanted suspect drug dealers.
He said it was a good sign that Myanmar authorities had ask for evidence and information about the case from their Thai counterparts. The DKBA leader no longer dared to produce yaba, which was a good thing, he said.
