She was a shirt and shoe salesman in Uganda.
When she came to Singapore on a social visit pass in March, she continued to sell, except that what was on offer was her body.
It was bad enough when she got caught for soliciting.
It got worse when she tried to bribe her way out of trouble.
Ugandan national Nakaseeta Joyce, 27, was on Monday jailed seven weeks for trying to bribe a police officer with $190 and US$300 (S$370).
Sergeant Muhammad Aniq Rusli, 25, was on his anti-crime rounds with a partner on March 19 at about 8pm when they came upon Joyce.
The two were attached to the Rochor Neighbourhood Police Centre.
At about 12.30am, the two plainclothes police officers were walking around Desker Road when they saw Joyce standing alone at the pavement along Rowell Road.
They walked past and she approached them, asking which country they were from.
They replied, and Joyce talked to them.
She then offered sexual services, negotiating the rate with the officers and asking them to take her to a hotel.
The two sergeants then identified themselves as police officers, showing her their warrant cards.
Sgt Aniq told her that soliciting for sex in public was an offence and they were arresting her.
She then pleaded in English: "There is only three of us, what do you want, I can give it to you."
She was willing, she said, to "give anything."
But the officers warned her that offering a bribe to police officers was an offence.
Undaunted, she took money from her purse and put it in Sgt Aniq's right hand.
The police officer put the money back in her hand, but she pushed it back at him, saying: "You are my brother, please help me. You take the money and just let me go."
Sgt Aniq again rejected the money.
At about 12.55am that same day, she was arrested for corruptly giving gratification to police officers to induce them to release her from custody.
In court yesterday, Joyce, who was unrepresented, said she was sorry and asked to be sent back home.
Apart from the charge under the Prevention of Corruption Act, another charge of public loitering with the purpose of prostitution was taken into consideration.
