He didn't get away with a light sentence because he is rich. That was Law Minister K Shanmugam's response to comments about the recent case involving plastic surgeon Woffles Wu.
No one is above the law, Mr Shanmugam said.
Dr Wu was fined S$1,000 for abetting an employee to provide misleading information to the police. He had got Mr Kuan Yit Wah to take the blame for two speeding offences in 2005 and 2006.
Mr Shanmugam, speaking on the sidelines of a community event last Saturday, referred to questions that the case raised.
He spoke about why Dr Wu was charged with abetment only, why he was given a fine rather than jail and why the punishment came so long after the offence.
Dr Wu, 52, "did not make the misleading statements himself," Channel NewsAsia quoted Mr Shanmugam as saying. The statements in question were made by MrKuan, which was why the charge could only be that of abetment.
Mr Shanmugam stressed that investigations into who the driver actually was are still on and that the case has not been concluded.
He said the decision to prosecute was made - independently - by the Attorney-General's Chambers (AGC). As for sentencing, that is for the courts to decide and a fine is apparently "within the norm of usual sentences" under that charge, though there had been cases where the offender was jailed.
In this case, Mr Shanmugam pointed out, no money had changed hands.
He acknowledged that Mr Kuan was not charged. This could have been because the AGC took into account the fact that Mr Kuan is now over 80 years old.
As for why it took six years for Dr Wu to be prosecuted, Mr Shanmugam said the police were initially unaware of the offences.
He said the information came in a complaint made much later. Once the complaint was received, the authorities investigated and the AGC decided to charge Dr Wu.
Mr Shanmugam's comments came after Member of Parliament Hri Kumar Nair expressed surprise at the sentence that Dr Wu got.
Mr Nair blogged that such offences are serious as "they seek to undermine the course of justice". The MP for Bishan-Toa Payoh GRC also noted that others who had been convicted of similar offences had been jailed.
"I do not know what the judge took into account in making his decision and I accept that no two cases are the same," he wrote.
Mr Nair, a lawyer, hoped the court's decision would be explained to address claims of unfair treatment that had already surfaced online, and promote transparency and confidence in the legal system.
He felt part of the problem lay in the law giving judges very little discretion in sentencing, which entails usually a fine or jail or both. "There may be occasions where a fine is too lenient while jail may be too harsh," The Straits Times quoted him as saying.
He pointed out that if the offender cannot pay a fine, he is jailed by default and this converts a light punishment into a heavy one. It also discriminates between those who can pay and those who cannot.
"I would prefer if the court had more flexibility in sentencing so that the punishment truly fits the crime," said Mr Nair. "For example, where a person pays another to take the rap for a traffic offence to preserve his driving licence, wouldn't a more appropriate punishment be to suspend his licence?"
