UNITED KINGDOM - The mother decided her daughters needed "sexual education" - but not of the textbook kind.
Instead, the British woman, now a 65-year-old grandmother, urged her lover at the time to rape her three girls, who were all under 16 years old then.
The attacks occurred over seven years, from 1975 to 1982, but came to light only in December 2010.
That was when one of the victims went to a pub and learnt that the man who raped her had died, reported the British media.
The police questioned the mother and she admitted what she had done.
At the Bristol Crown Court on Wednesday, she pleaded guilty to 25 charges of aiding and abetting the rape of her children. She was jailed for 10 years.
The court was told how the woman told her children to wear provocative "adult" underwear and then gave them alcohol to drink.
She drove them to her partner and he raped them separately. The court heard that the woman only allowed the rapist to abuse her daughters when she was present as she derived a sexual thrill from the abuse.
During sentencing, Judge Carol Hagen told the woman: "You have pleaded guilty to the most gravest of offences, which spanned seven years.
"It is impossible to imagine a more gross breach of trust. As a victim mentioned, there was never any question of having a parent to support or protect her.
"On the contrary, you permitted and encouraged the greatest abuse and the effect on these women is incalculable.
"It is, on any view, extreme. You were a woman who your daughters found it difficult to disagree with."
The grey-haired pensioner, whom her lawyer described as "very intelligent", thanked the judge as she was led away.
Prosecutor James Ward told the court that the abuse had continued to affect the girls later in their lives.
This was confirmed by testimonies from their husbands.
In mitigation, the mother's lawyer, Miss Tabitha Macfarlane, said her client first became pregnant at 17 and later met her lover.
The woman told the man she had no sexual experience other than with the father of her children.
Miss Macfarlane said: "Her boyfriend said she had ruined her life and she should stop that happening again by giving the girls sexual experience.
"He said it happened in different cultures, where young women are given sexual experience by a trusted friend or a member of their family.
"He said it would do them good."
She added that the mother would have stopped the abuse if the girls had ever resisted.
The court heard that the woman had led an unblemished life since the rapes. Her daughters had even stayed over with her and she had looked after her grandchildren.
Mr Ward, speaking after the sentencing, said the daughters were "extremely upset" by the abuse.
He added: "By pleading guilty, she has at least spared them from giving evidence..."
