He was seated on the bus when he felt the person standing beside him rubbing his groin against his right shoulder.
The man, 20, told his father, who then complained to the driver.
The incident happened on Thursday evening, at about 6.15pm on board SBS bus service No. 195.
The alleged culprit, a 39-year-old man, was subsequently questioned by the police.
Ms Tammy Tan, the senior vice-president of corporate communications for SBS Transit, said that following the father's complaint, the bus captain immediately contacted the Operations Control Centre.
It instructed him to stop the bus in a safe location without causing obstruction to other vehicles and to close the doors to prevent the alleged culprit from escaping.
The Operations Control Centre also contacted the police for assistance.
The bus stopped at a stretch along Depot Road, at a bus-stop near Block 104C.
The other 20 passengers were allowed to alight and transfer to another bus to continue their journey.
Dad talks to cops
Mr Loh Jun Jie, 23, a part-time student who had been waiting to board the bus, said police officers spoke to the alleged victim, the victim's father and the other male passenger on board the bus.
Mr Loh said he saw the father gesticulating to show the police officers how the other passenger had molested his son.
Police have classified the case as one where criminal force was used. They have also advised the complainant to lodge a magistrate's complaint if he wishes to pursue the matter.
But The New Paper understands that the 20-year-old may decide not to do so.
Shin Min Daily News reported that the alleged victim was seated on the left side of the bus when he felt the older passenger rubbing against his right shoulder.
The bus was headed in the direction of Queensway when a passenger, who said he was the father of the alleged victim, complained to the driver enroute.
Criminal lawyer Adrian Wee said that under the Penal Code, criminal force refers to the use of unwanted force on another person short of causing hurt. The physical contact has to be deliberate and unwelcome.
He explained that what people term as molest refers to criminal force with the additional component that it was used with the intent to outrage a person's modesty.
The intention to outrage modesty is inferred from the circumstances and conduct of the person involved.
In other words, the physical contact must be sexual in nature.
The gender of the parties involved is immaterial in cases where there is outrage of modesty. Whether the alleged victim is male or female, or the alleged molester is male or female, the same law applies.
