OSAKA - Police believe the suspect in Sunday's fatal random stabbings of two people on an Osaka street may have acted out of despair after an acquaintance in Osaka refused to give him a job, sources said.
Kyozo Isohi, 36, was quoted as telling police he came to Osaka to find a job. He reportedly said that although he visited an acquaintance and sought employment at the man's company, he was turned down.
The police will analyze Isohi's psychological state at the time of the killings as they suspect his failure to get a job might have triggered the indiscriminate murders.
According to the Utsunomiya probation office in Tochigi Prefecture and other sources, Isohi had completed a prison term in Niigata Prefecture at the end of May for violating the Stimulant Drugs Control Law. After he was released on May 24, he visited the probation office and asked for information about a place to stay because he had nowhere to go.
The office introduced Isohi to a private rehabilitation center for treatment of drug addiction in Tochigi Prefecture, his home prefecture. While staying at the center, he worked for a cleaning company part-time but left the center Friday.
The next day, he visited his acquaintance in Osaka to ask for a job.
On the following day, he allegedly stabbed the two people about one kilometer from the home of the acquaintance. Isohi had 200,000 yen (S$3,220) in his possession, sources said, and bought a kitchen knife only 10 minutes before the attacks.
Isohi, whose hometown was in the northern part of Tochigi Prefecture, was the youngest of three brothers, according to sources who know him. His mother died when Isohi was a child, and his father closed his timber business soon after his wife's death and moved to Shimotsuke in the prefecture with Isohi when he was a fifth-year primary school student.
In middle school, Isohi frequently fought, the sources who knew him said. He later joined a motorcycle gang, eventually becoming its leader, and was sometimes seen sniffing paint thinner, the sources said.
Isohi dropped out of a high school that specialized in horticulture shortly after enrollment.
Although he once worked at an interior finishing company, he reportedly remained in touch with members of an organized criminal gang until his mid-20s. He often told his friends in those days that he had "just injected a stimulant drug," the sources who knew him said.
After his father's death, he moved from place to place alone. In Utsunomiya, he was often seen leaving an apartment in working clothes. The apartment's rent was 28,000 yen (S$772) a month, the sources said.
