SINGAPORE - An islandwide operation by the Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) saw 78 drug offenders arrested and drugs worth more than $360,000 seized.
The five-day operation from April 9 saw arrests made in more than 13 locations, including Ang Mo Kio, Bedok, Bendemeer and Bukit Merah.
On April 10, two males aged 52 and 37 and a female Singaporean aged 42 were arrested in a CNB raid on a HDB unit in Marsiling.
About 300 grammes of heroin and 5 grammes of 'Ice', worth approximately S$46,000, were seized from the raid. During the operation, officers also seized two bottles of chicken essence found to contain an unknown powdery substance. The powdery substance has since been sent to the Health Sciences Authority for tests to determine its composition.
The 37-year-old male and the female has been charged for drug trafficking. If convicted, they may face the death penalty. The 52-year-old male Singaporean has been admitted to a drug rehabilitation centre.
Two male Singaporeans aged 54 and 50, along with a 40-year-old female Singapore were arrested in another raid on April 11.
Officers seized a cocktail of drugs from within the unit, including approximately 200 grammes of heroin, 4 grammes of 'Ice', some small amount of 'Subutex' and two 'Ecstasy' tablets.
The drugs are estimated to have a street worth of more than S$32,000. The 50-year-old male has been charged for drug trafficking and the 54-year-old male has been admitted to a drug rehabilitation centre. Investigations on the female drug offender are ongoing.
On April 12, CNB officers raided two HDB apartments in the same block in Upper Boon Keng Road, where suspected drug activities were believed to be taking place.
Five male Singaporeans in the first unit were arrested within for suspected drug abuse. In the other unit, a 27-year-old male Singapore was arrested. He will be investigated for drug trafficking. If convicted, he may face a minimum of 5 years' imprisonment and 5 strokes of the cane.
CNB's director Ng Ser Song said: "In an intensive week of operations, CNB seized a sizeable amount of drugs and arrested a large number of drug traffickers, street-level pushers and drug abusers alike.
"This continuous sustained week-long effort is a testament to CNB's dedication to keeping Singapore's streets safe from drug activities. We will spare no effort against all drug offenders, big or small."
