It was 11.15pm and Mr Hoo Yong Liang was at home, watching TV with his wife, when he heard someone calling out to him at the gate.
The 76-year-old retiree went to check and was surprised to see three police officers.
One of them told him that the house next door had been broken into and that the burglars had been caught.
"But they needed to get into the house to do some investigations," said Mr Hoo.
He then tried to call his neighbours, who were on vacation in China.
After several failed attempts at reaching them, Mr Hoo decided to let the police officers into the compound with the keys that his neighbours had entrusted him with.
"They left a set of keys with me and asked me to help them attend to any emergencies," Mr Hoo told The New Paper.
"I stood outside until the police told me it was all right for me to enter. When I stepped into my neighbours' compound, I did not notice any sign of housebreaking. The wooden main door to the house was still locked.
"But when I got to the backyard, I saw that one of the windows was broken. There were also footprints on a countertop in the outside kitchen."
Mr Hoo added: "The police officers called for specialists and the latter lifted the fingerprints and footprints that could have been left by the burglars. They did not enter the house as it was locked. And they left only close to 1am."
The burglary took place at about 8.30pm on Wednesday at a three-storey semi-detached house at Recreation Road in Serangoon.
The police later arrested four Colombian men and recovered more than $300,000 worth of cash and valuables.
These included about $243,000 in cash, in different foreign currencies, as well as jewellery and gold bars.
On Friday morning, Luis Carlos Carrillo Ramirez, 43; Hernandez Beltran Edwin Neil, 42; Fernandez Zamora Edwin, 33; and Sarmiento Cardona Alvaro, 34, were charged with housebreaking by night with common intention under Section 457, read with Section 34 of the Penal Code Chapter 224.
If convicted, the four, who arrived in Singapore earlier this month, face a jail term which may extend to 14 years.
According to police statistics, 3,885 foreigners were arrested for crimes here last year.
These crimes include theft, housebreaking, robbery and outrage of modesty.
Inspector Liew told TNP that police had acted on information received and swiftly proceeded to the private residential estate off Upper Serangoon Road.
They spotted three men emerging from the back alley between Recreation Road and Joon Hiang Road.
"They were seen to be behaving suspiciously. Two of them were carrying bags," said Insp Liew.
When approached by the police, the suspects tried to flee.
They put up a struggle, but the officers managed to detain two of them, who were carrying the bags which contained the recovered items.
The third man managed to escape. No one was hurt in the struggle.
Later that night, police arrested two other suspects in Geylang.
One of them was believed to be the man who had got away at Recreation Road.
Preliminary investigations indicate that the four suspects may have been involved in at least three other break-ins in Ang Mo Kio and Yio Chu Kang.
Court papers stated that the four had entered the house at Recreation Road by climbing over a low wall.
They then allegedly used a screwdriver to force a kitchen window open.
The house belongs to Mr Han Yan An.
Mr Hoo said the family - Mr Han, his wife and teenage son - left for China on the first day of the school holidays, after telling him they would be back just before school reopens.
But Mr Han is cutting short his vacation and is expected back in Singapore today, Mr Hoo told TNP.
Mr Hoo said the family moved into the house earlier this year.
Mr Hoo who managed to speak to his neighbours only on Friday, added: "They sounded so worried over the phone and wanted to return immediately as they are worried that more burglars would climb into their home through the broken windows."
The police advise the public to adopt crime prevention measures like securing residences with window grilles, closed-circuit television cameras and alarm systems.
Insp Liew revealed that the police believed that the suspects abandoned their plan to break into another house after the alarm installed in that house went off.
A spokesman for ADT Security, which specialises in home security, told TNP: "It is very likely for a burglar to target a home that is not protected, rather than a home that is monitored by a 24-hour monitoring centre.
"With a monitored system installed, the police will be informed once the signal is verified as a true intrusion alarm."
The spokesman added that with high-technology systems, they are able to know which window or door has been broken into.
