She was watching television in her third-storey HDB flat when she heard shouting from the road outside.
The 25-year-old woman, who wanted to be known only as Miss Nora, looked out the balcony and was shocked.
Cars were screeching to a halt as a man allegedly slashed another on the road divider at Woodlands Drive 14 at around 7.50pm last Friday night.
There were also two women in the middle of the road.
One of the women and the alleged assailant kept screaming at each other, said Miss Nora, who works in a bank.
The woman, who was also trying to separate the two guys, repeatedly screamed "He's only a friend" in Malay, and begged the attacker to stop.
Finally, he did, and crossed the road. The others helped the victim to a coffee shop on the other side of the road.
Said Miss Nora: "Everything happened so fast. I couldn't believe something like that had happened."
She watched as the alleged assailant walked calmly towards the void deck of her block, still holding the weapon.
She said: "I also heard the woman say over the phone: 'I didn't know he was carrying a parang.'" It is unclear what prompted the slashing.
The group had been drinking beer at the coffee shop of the neighbourhood shopping centre, Vista Point, when one of the women suddenly started screaming.
The 20-strong crowd at the coffee shop turned to watch.
A retiree, 70, who declined to be named, said the two men stood up and started arguing.
The taller one punched the shorter one till he fell to the floor.
He said: "The taller guy kept kicking him. It was all so sudden. They seemed to be friends, I don't know what happened that made them act this way."
The shorter man then ran to the centre of the road, and the other man and the two women followed him.
Miss Nora said that was when he whipped out the parang, which was about 30cm long, and started slashing the taller man.
After the victim returned to the coffee shop with the two women, he took off his shirt and wrapped it around his left arm. But blood continued dripping onto the floor.
One of the women then called the police, who arrived in 10 minutes. Police said they are investigating.
The Singapore Civil Defence Force said a 27-year-old man with a laceration on his left arm was taken to Khoo Teck Puat Hospital.
