Stories from crime survivors are rare. We hear of the crime, but the victims are faceless and anonymous. Sometimes, that's simply because they don't live to tell their stories.
When social media marketeer Chin Xin Ci thwarted her abductors last months, she shared her traumatic experience and how she escaped on Facebook.
Her detailed account of the four-minute episode immediately went viral; 51,000 people have shared her story on their Facebook pages, and over 1,000 left comments for her.
Chin was kidnapped at knifepoint in the car park of a busy shopping centre on a Sunday evening, and if she had not outwitted her abductors, her case too would have added to the country's violent crime statistics.
In February, the Home Ministry announced that the overall crime index for 2011 has dropped by 11.1% with a reduction of 39.7% in street crime last year.
"I used to think that this is something that happens only in the papers and to people far, far removed from me. But then it did happen to me," Chin wrote.
The reality is that the worst case scenario does happen, no matter how many prevention tips we know or follow, or where we are.
Azalea Rahab was sleeping in her bedroom when she heard a noise and then felt a knife pressed against her throat. She was afraid but desperate to survive, so she thrashed violently, kicking, clawing and biting to break free from the intruder's grip.
Her wild struggle knocked the knife out of his hand, but he then took out a penknife from his pocket.
Azalea continued to fight frantically, and her assailant fled with just her handbag. He left a deep gash on her wrist that required nine stitches.
"I fought like a deranged woman ... anything to survive. He must have been caught off guard that I'd actually put up a fight. That's probably why he left."
"Being trapped alone in a house with your aggressor is one of the most dangerous situations you can find yourself in. Although no one is likely to hear your screams and come to your rescue, you can survive if your mind is strong," says personal safety consultant Saiful Hamiruzzaman, a martial arts veteran who conducts self-defence workshops.
It is imperative that victims discern what is best for themselves in the situation, and what they are willing to do.
According to a study on the sociology of rape published by the University of Minnesota, Duluth, United States, there is not "a right way" to respond in a desperate and violent situation, such as abduction, rape and robbery.
Such situations are often life-threatening and each aggressor has a pattern of his own, so the best thing a victim can do is to follow her instincts and observe any cues from the rapist. If the victim escapes alive, she has done the right thing.
Azalea fought her attacker, but Chin was cooperative and compliant initially. She only started putting up a fight when she felt she could attract some attention.
Although she was terrified, Chin assessed her situation and realised she couldn't overpower the two abductors. Instead, she kept her head and prepared for a possible escape by pleading to be allowed to sit up and for her captor to loosen his grip on her arm. She even managed to unlock her door, but waited till the car slowed down at a busy intersection to flee.
"I recall elbowing, struggling, kicking and even biting. I remember thinking: 'Even if I don't get out now, I need to keep the door open and get my legs out the door. At the very least, it should cause a scene, and someone will see me. Or, the door might hit another car and they'll be forced to slow down'," she recalled in her posting.
Crime can happen anywhere; the scenarios are varied but there is always a huge risk of injury and even death, apart from material loss.
"In all of these situations, as long as you are conscious, there is a way out," Saiful says.
The most important thing to do if someone is trying to force you into a vehicle is to fight at all costs. If your attacker is able to get you inside, your chance of escape or survival is dramatically reduced.
Saiful says most people panic and give in to the attackers' demands.
"When you hear a menacing voice and feel something against your back, you immediately think it's a knife or a gun. So, the victim obediently follows the attacker into the vehicle. It could just be the mugger's two fingers, for all you know," he says.
His advice is to stay calm and assess the situation, such as if the assailant is armed or if there is anyone within earshot.
Saiful says victims can try to stall for time by asking the assailant what he wants.
"Whatever the answer, you already have your survival weapons on you - your teeth, legs, nails and brains."
For instance, you could use your arms and legs to jam yourself in the car's doorway if someone is trying to push you into the car.
In his workshops at the self-defence training academy Green Hornet, Saiful demonstrates how to distract attackers such as by biting his arm followed by a swift kick to the knees. Such moves could cause a split second of confusion and a loosened grip.
Seize the chance, and run for your life, while screaming "Fire!" or "Api!", as that attracts more attention than "Help!". Focus on running away from the situation.
Although it is a good idea to put up a fight, it also depends on the situation. Abductions can happen in an instant, and the element of surprise and shock favour the abductors and make it easier for them to overpower their victims.
In such scenarios, it's smarter for the victim to keep calm and appear cooperative so she can assess her situation and look for other ways to escape or wait to be rescued.
In the film Taken, a teenager called her policeman father and told him men had broken into their apartment and were kidnapping them. He asked his daughter to leave her phone on and shout out important details about her kidnappers. He used the information to rescue her.
That was, of course, the dramatics of a Hollywood film, but we actually have a smartphone apps in Selangor that could help the police track our whereabouts when the distress signal is activated.
The application, known as MyDistress, was introduced by the police last August.
As the apps only works in Selangor, Saiful's advice is to have an emergency number on speed dial. It should be a family member or a friend that you could call.
"Call and leave the line open as you scream out everything you notice about your assailant," says Saiful.
Those emergency contacts must be informed that they are on your list so as to be prepared to take action when they receive such a call.
Every crime situation is different, and the best strategy is keeping your wits about you.
"My friends said I was brave, but I didn't feel like it. I was quivering and shaking in fear. I was so afraid. I thought I was going to die. I was paralysed by fear and deathly afraid. I truly thought 'this was it', but I knew I HAD to move. I had to run or there would be a worse fate in store for me. While I was quaking in fear, I forced myself to look around and see if there was any way I could escape, or even catch someone's eye," wrote Chin, recounting how she handled her harrowing experience.
