SINGAPORE - Former MediaCorp actor Ng Aik Leong, better known as Huang Yiliang, was fined $3,000 on Thursday for assaulting a woman who failed to clean up after her dog.
The 50-year-old pleaded guilty in court today for voluntarily causing hurt to 48-year-old Mdm Tan Buay Huang at Toa Payoh Lorong 2 on May 20, 2011.
Mdm Tan was walking her dog when Ng noticed from inside his car that she did not dispose of her dog's faeces properly. Upset, he then drove up to her and reprimanded her for not cleaning up.
Both parties got into a heated argument and matters escalated to a point where Ng and the victim started video-recording and taking pictures of each other with their handphones, according to a local news source.
In course of the events, the court also heard that Mdm Tan had attempted to prevent Ng from leaving by standing in front of his car.
Ng then got out of his car, grabbed Mdm Tan by the neck and pushed her aside, causing her to fall.
He continued taunting her while holding her down forcefully.
In his mitigation, Ng's lawyer Mr Bala Chandran said the scuffle arose as a result of Mdm Tan's actions rather than Ng's own volition.
He added that Ng was "merely doing a civic duty by requesting the victim to pick up her dog's faeces."
Deputy Public Prosecutor Crystal Tan argued in her rebuttal that Ng was clearly badgering Mdm Tan by taunting and honking at her.
In addition, Ng had earlier admitted to proof of video footage that he intentionally bothered Mdm Tan, and had even threatened to send her to jail.
Addressing the root of the issue, District Judge Lee Poh Choo noted that it "arose from the ungracious behaviour of an irresponsible dog owner".
Judge Lee said that Ng was right in confronting Mdm Tan, but he "unfortunately went overboard" and reacted in an "ungentlemanly manner".
The report also said that Mdm Tan, who suffered multiple abrasions, will not be seeking compensation.
Ng could have been jailed up to two years, and fined $5,000.
He left MediaCorp in 2008 and currently owns a production house.
