SINGAPORE - Lee Lip Hong, the former principal of Pei Chun Public School has been charged in court for having paid sex with an underage girl, The Straits Times reported.
He is among the 44 men to be charged in court today under Section 376B(1) of the Penal Code, Chapter 224 for prostitution of minor under 18.
The 39-year-old is reportedly the only one who admitted to the two charges of having paid $500 on each of the two occasions for sex with the under-aged girl.
He had sex with her at Hotel 81 Bencoolen on Sept 26 and Dec 14, 2010.
Previous reports have stated that he has a son from a marriage of over 10 years.
Reports first broke in February on the bust of an online vice syndicate which employed under-aged girls, which saw 80 men reportedly being implicated.
The suspects included high ranking men from both public and private organisations, and comprised of both bachelors and married men.
Among those charged include a police superintendent Tan Wee Kiat, 35, and ex-National Environment Agency in-house Counsel Chia Kok Peng, 38.
The men are said to range in age from their 20s to 50s, and are believed to have paid for sex with a Singaporean girl two years ago.
The public servants were implicated when Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and the Police Intelligence Department (PID) carried out raids against the vice syndicate in late December last year
A list that revealed the names of the syndicate's clients were among the items that were seized in the island-wide raid.
According to previous reports, the principal lives in an expensive condominium in the East with his family. Each unit in the area commands a market value of at least $1 million and residents there all drive luxury cars.
Pei Chun Public School is a government-aided primary school, located in Toa Payoh, Singapore.
The Straits Times reported that the principal had quit unexpectedly last December, and a message was sent to parents of students in his former school saying that he was leaving because of personal reasons and family commitments.
The principal was known in the sporting circles and was an official for a national youth team.
Prostitution is legal in Singapore, however under certain conditions such as disallowing sex with under-aged prostitutes.
Paid sex with a girl under 18 carries a maximum penalty of seven years in jail and a fine.
