KUALA LUMPUR - A Police team had to fire several shots at four robbers in a stolen Toyota Camry before apprehending three of them in a dramatic operation in Persiaran Gurney, here, on Sunday night.
One of the robbers escaped on foot, but three of his accomplices who tried to attack police with parang after they were cornered were nabbed.
Earlier, the robbers confronted a businessman in Taman Ehsan, Kepong, before fleeing in his Toyota Camry.
The businessman told police that among his valuables in the stolen car were RM1,000 (S$409), a cheque book and several invoices.
The victim later received a global positioning system (GPS) notification that his car was in Jalan Wangsa Delima, Wangsa Maju. He then notified the police.
When a team from the Gombak police headquarters arrived at the scene, they saw the robbers changing the number plate of the stolen car. The team followed the robbers to the Lanai Gurney Corporate Suite in Persiaran Gurney.
The robbers left the car while police waited in ambush. An hour later, they returned and when police confronted them, they attacked the raiding team members with parang.
In the scuffle, the robbers got into the car and reversed into the patrol car, forcing police to open fire. The police fired six shots, two hitting both front tyres, two went through the boot while the two other shots struck the front passenger door.
Despite being shot at, the suspects sped towards Jalan Gurney 1 when another police party intercepted the car.
In the brief struggle that ensued, police apprehended three suspects aged between 28 and 35. The fourth suspect fled.
A burger stall owner, who did not want to be identified, said he could not believe that the drama which unfolded before him involved real cops and robbers.
"Earlier, they were shooting a movie here involving street motorcycle racers.
"When police intercepted the Toyota Camry, I thought it was part of the movie shoot."
Gombak police chief Assistant Commissioner Abdul Rahim Abdullah said two of the suspects were former Simpang Renggam detainees, while the third suspect was recently released from Kajang Prison.
He identified the three robbers as "serial criminals", with each having between two and 10 convictions for various offences.
