The police say that they have arrested a 55-year-old widow at Soe karno-Hatta International Airport earlier for allegedly impersonating a police officer.
Airport police chief Sr. Comr. Reynhard Silitonga said that the woman, identified as Sandra Susan, was arrested at the airport's international terminal after officers grew wary.
"Her conduct did not reflect that of a woman police officer. After facing interrogation from suspicious officers, she finally admitted that she was not a real officer," Reynhard told reporters on Tuesday.
Sandra's arrest came seven days after airport police detained trash executive Yudha Tandijaya, 38, for allegedly wearing a Singapore Airlines pilot uniform to con a cell phone seller.
Airport police spokesman Comr. Agus Tri said that Susan, a mother of four from Bandung, West Java, told officers that she graduated from the National Police Academy in Semarang, Central Java, in 1983.
Jakarta Police spokesman Sr. Comr. Rikwanto said that Susan first told officers that she was a commissioner, a mid-level officer rank.
"The officers became suspicious because she was wearing a red-rimmed collar patch, which identified her as a high-ranking officer, holding at least the rank of brigadier general," Rikwanto said. Police commissioners wore brown-rimmed patches, he added.
The police said that Susan bought her regalia at one of the police uniform stores near the Senen traditional market last week and had worn it to the airport to welcome a friend.
"We were planning to go to our hometown together, and I used the police uniform just for style," Susan said, adding that she hoped to impress people back home with the uniform.
Rikwanto confirmed that police uniforms could be bought in public markets. "As long as you have a convincing appearance, you can buy the garb. It's such a shame that this woman has misused the uniform."
He said that Susan had been charged with Article 228 of the Criminal Code for wearing official insignia and impersonating a person of rank and authority, which carries a punishment of up to two years' imprisonment.
Susan has been detained by the airport police while detectives continued to question her.
