A delivery man has pleaded guilty to slashing his neighbour with a samurai sword and admitted to hurting his pregnant wife who already had a protection order taken out against him.
The Straits Times reported that Feizal Abu Bakar, 28, went to confront a neighbour he had suspected of reporting him for drug consumption.
The man's wife was on the receiving end of Feizal's anger, who was drunk at the time, as the man was not at home.
Local news reports said Feizal got angry and shouted at Ms Wirdawati Che Muning, 36, when she said her husband was out.
The housewife tried to retreat into her flat but Feizal took out a black samurai sword and prevented her from closing the door.
He then swung the sword at her, cutting her hands, and pushed his way into her flat where he slashed her several times on her head, leg and back.
Ms Wirdawati suffered cuts and abrasions on her head, back and limbs.
In a district court on Monday, Feizal admitted to hurting the Ms Wirdawati with a weapon, reported The Straits Times.
The court heard that a resident called the police after hearing screams, and on seeing Feizal with a sword in hand, standing over his bleeding victim at 7.15pm on Jan 7, 2012.
The incident happened on the first-storey corridor of a block of flats in Boon Lay Drive.
The Straits Times reported that police seized three other ceremonial samurai swords exhibited in Feizal's living room.
Chinese newpaper Shin Min Daily reported that the sword used to hit Ms Wirdawati was 40cm long, and the other confiscated ones were 38cm to 50cm.
Investigations showed that Feizal's blood-alcohol level was 137mg; 80mg is the legal drink-drive limit.
Three days prior, Feizal had slapped, punched and kicked his own pregnant wife after she refused to accompany him to a police station to settle his bail.
Local news reports said that according to hospital medical reports, the 34-year-old Indonesian national suffered bruises and abrasions from Feizal's assaults.
The Straits Times reported that she had obtained a personal protection order last November.
