Prosecutors yesterday recovered close to NT$7.3 million (S$31,025 in cash from one of the houses of suspected "raincoat robber" Wang Yuan.
This brought the total sum of the recovered money supposedly robbed by Wang to more than NT$10 million so far.
Both Wang and his girlfriend, surnamed Lin, are now being detained for investigation.
They met at the Taipei Prosecutors Office yesterday afternoon for the first time since they were placed under custody, respectively.
After learning that Lin is now listed by investigators as one of Wang's alleged accomplices in a series of bank robberies, Wang started talking and told the prosecutors that he had stashed some money at his home in Daxi, Taoyuan County.
Police in Taipei later took Wang to his home and recovered a total of NT$7.292,000 hidden in the concealed compartment of his shoe cabinet.
They then went to Wang's other home on Daan Road in Taipei for additional searches.
A few days earlier, police uncovered NT$3 million hidden by Wang at the home of one of Lin's friends.
Wang decided to tell police about the locations of the money only after he learned that Lin is now under investigation as his accomplice. He did not want Lin to be implicated.
He told police of the whereabouts of the money in an attempt to prove that his girlfriend had no role at all in his heists which targeted at the banks in Taipei.
Wang told prosecutors that he netted a total of more than NT$40 million in three heists by wearing rainwear to rob the cash delivery vehicles of banks.
He obtained NT$12.5 million from Taiwan Business Bank by robbing the security vehicle parked at the bank's branch on Section 3 of Nanjing East Road in Taipei on March 26 this year. Wang shot and injured a security guard during the heist.
Wang admitted that he robbed the same bank branch in 2005. Later, he hit the cash van to get money from a branch of Taiwan Cooperative Bank to net a total of more than NT$40 million in three strikes.
He told prosecutors yesterday that he had already spent about NT$30 million from the total.
Police sources said that Wang met his girlfriend seven years ago and he had bought her a house in Taoyuan plus a car.
Lin told investigators that she knew nothing about Wang's involvement with the robberies, although they frequently spent time together.
But prosecutors have not yet bought her story.
