Six men aged between 23 and 42 have been arrested by the police for suspected involvement in five separate loansharking cases.
In the first case, police officers were conducting anti-crime patrols on Apr 3 at about 10pm when they spotted a man behaving suspiciously along a HDB block corridor in the Clementi Avenue 3 area.
The officers conducted a check on the man and found in his possession one Automated Teller Machine (ATM) card, two mobile phones and cash amounting to $2,400.
The 33-year-old suspect was arrested for suspected involvement in loansharking activities and the items were also seized as case exhibits.
Preliminary investigations revealed that the suspect is a debtor-turned-runner and he is believed to have assisted the loan sharks in their business by collecting repayments from debtors.
In the second case, officers were alerted to a case of loan shark harassment in Tampines Street 34 on April 4 at about 2.10 am.
They detained a 30-year-old suspect and found a marker, one lighter, two bottles of kerosene, one bottle of engine oil, one pair of gloves and a mobile phone containing with debtors' records in his possession.
All the items are believed to be used in committing loan shark harassment and were seized as case exhibits.
Preliminary investigations revealed that the suspect is believed to be responsible for several cases of loan shark harassment island-wide by locking debtors' units using bicycle lock, splashing paint and scrawling loan shark-related graffiti on walls, as well as harassment by fire in Toa Payoh.
In the third case, officers were conducting anti-crime patrols in the Serangoon Central area on April 4at about 4pm when they spotted a 42-year-old suspect behaving suspiciously.
The officers conducted a check on him and found loan shark-related items such as bottles of paint, marker pens and pieces of paper with suspected debtors' entries in his possession.
The items were seized as case exhibits.
Preliminary investigations indicated that the suspect may be involved in at least three cases of loan shark harassment in Serangoon housing estates by splashing paint at debtors' units and scrawling loan shark-related graffiti on the walls.
In the fourth case, on 3 April 2012 at about 9.00pm, officers were conducting anti-crime rounds in the Woodlands Civic Centre area on April 3 at about 9pm when they spotted two men aged 30 and 35 behaving suspiciously at an Automated Teller Machine (ATM).
After conducting a check, they found loan shark-related items such as three mobile phones containing debtors' records, a stack of bank transactions receipts, thirteen ATM cards and cash amounting to $2530 in their possession.
The men were arrested and the loan shark-related items were seized as case exhibits.
Preliminary investigations revealed that both suspects are debtors-turned-runners. They are believed to have assisted loan sharks syndicates by procuring ATM cards from debtors and using them to perform funds transactions.
In the fifth case, officers were conducting anti-crime rounds in the Jurong West Street 65 area on April 4 at about 12.55am when they spotted a man behaving suspiciously.
They found loan shark-related items such as a marker, one screwdriver, two cans of paint, a mobile phone containing debtors' records and a black bag in his possession.
The items were seized.
Preliminary investigations revealed that the 23-year-old suspect believed to have assisted a loan shark syndicates to carry out loan shark harassment in Jurong West and Tampines housing estates by splashing paint and scrawling loanshark-related graffiti on the walls.
Investigations against the suspect in the first case are on-going.
Those found guilty of assisting unlicensed moneylenders can be fined between $30,000 and $300,000, jailed up to four years and can also be caned up to six strokes.
The suspects for the four other cases will be charged in Court on April 5 for loan shark harassment.
Under the Moneylenders' Act 2010 (Revised Edition), those found guilty of acting on behalf of an unlicensed moneylender, committing or attempting to commit any acts of harassment can be jailed up to five years, fined between $5,000 and $50,000, and caned between three and six strokes.
