BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN - A man charged with two counts of sodomising two teenage boys was granted bail yesterday by the Magistrate's Court following an application by a defence counsel.
Defence Counsel Sheikh Nordin, who represented the 52-year-old defendant, who shall remain anonymous due to the nature of the crime, made the application for the defendant to be released on bail and said the defence counsel is prepared to comply with the conditions that the prosecution wished to propose.
The defence counsel also believed that the defendant had fully cooperated with the police while he was remanded for eight days since he was arrested on June 6, to facilitate with investigations.
The defendant was brought before the court last week where court documents state that the defendant had carnal intercourse against the order of nature with a 12-year-old boy and 13-year-old boy at two different times on the same day in Kuala Belait.
During the proceedings yesterday, the prosecution, led by Deputy Public Prosecutor Shamshuddin Hj Kamaluddin, indicated that the prosecution may be preferring an additional charge against the defendant in committing the same offence with another 13-year-old boy.
The prosecution did not object to the defence counsel's application for bail but applied strict conditions to the defendant's bail to reflect the seriousness of the offence.
The court granted the defendant to be release on a court bail of $10,000 in two local sureties and strictly abide with the conditions laid out by the prosecution.
The court ordered that the defendant should not contact the victims and is forbidden to go to the victims place of residence or its vicinity and school.
The defendant is also not allowed to approach the victims in public places and to make arrangement that the defendant's intended place of Friday prayers do not clash with the victims'.
The court also ordered that the defendant, family members and friends are not to approach the victims and their family members as well as to make arrangement for the defendant's children to be sent and picked up from school by family members other than the defendant himself.
The defendant is to report to the police once a week starting from June 19 and to inform the police if he intends to leave the state as his passport was not impounded.
The case has been adjourned for a further mention on July 21.
The Women and Child Abuse Investigations Unit at the Criminal Investigations Department of the Royal Brunei Police Force will be leading the investigations. If convicted, the defendant faces imprisonment for a term which may extend to 10 years and fine for each of the charge.
