KUALA LUMPUR - End of the road at Jalan Gurney 1 here for an auto-theft group as three out of four of them were nabbed at about 9.30pm on Sunday. The robbers, using two cars, had earlier hijacked a Toyota Camry at Taman Ehsan, Kepong at 6.20pm belonging to a businessman, who had then made a police report about ten minutes later, stating in the car were RM1000 cash, cheque book and invoices.
The victim later received a GPS notification revealing its location at Jalan Wangsa Delima, Wangsa Walk in Wangsa Maju and notified the police.
Gombak police criminal investigation department team who went there saw the robbers changing the stolen car's plate number. Then the team followed them to the parking space of Lanai Gurney Corporate Suite in Persiaran Gurney, arriving at 8pm.
When ambushed at 9.15pm, the robbers took out parang and tried to attack the police. They then retreated back into the car and while trying to escape, they rammed into the police's Proton Waja and sped off.
Police fired six shots; two hit both front tyres, two pierced the car boot, and another two went through the passenger's side door.
The four suspects drove on until Jalan Gurney 1, when police overtook them and block their car. They then got out and tried to run.
After a scuffle, three suspects aged 28 to 35, were caught while one got away.
One of the public witnesses of the incident, a burger stall owner who refused to be identified, said he was stunned when he realised it was a real cops and robbers chase scene.
"Just before, they were some people filming a movie here, involving motorcyclists, I think it's a movie about 'rempit',
"When the Toyota Camry was blocked and shot by the police, I initially thought the movie people are still filming," he said.
Gombak police chief Assistant Commissioner Abdul Rahim Abdullah told the New Straits Times in an SMS early Monday that two of the suspects were Simpang Renggam detention centre detainees under the Emergency Ordinance, while another had just finished a jail term in Kajang prison.
He added that the three detained had from two to 10 previous criminal records and the case is investigated under Section 395 of the Penal Code for armed robbery.
