Armed with a machete, steel cutter and spanner, the four men entered the Johor Baru home by breaking the lock on the front door grille.
They used electrical cord and tied up the four people who were in the double-storey house at the time - 68-year-old Tan Jim Lama and her three grandchildren Teo Chee Hui, 21, Teo Jing Yi, 19, and Teo Zhi Yong, 13.
The men then went from room to room, looking for things to take.
But Miss Teo Jing Yi didn't want to let go of a gold bracelet, which had been a present from her mother.
So she quickly hid it in her mouth as the men searched her room on Wednesday morning, the New Straits Times reported.
Said Miss Teo, who woke from her sleep after hearing the commotion: "It was a birthday present from my mother last month. Fortunately, I managed to keep it in my mouth throughout the ordeal."
Madam Tan and her grandchildren were not hurt in the incident.
The report said the assailants left an hour later, taking with them RM20,000 (S$8,000) worth of jewellery, cash and other valuables. In a police report, the family claimed the assailants were armed with a machete, steel cutter and spanner. They also had something that resembled a revolver.
The assailants first entered Mr Teo Chee Hui's room, held a machete to his neck and asked him to hand over money and valuables.
The assailants then moved to the other bedrooms and ransacked them before bundling the four of them into Madam Tan's bedroom.
The cord used to tie them up was cut from a fan, the report said.
Said Madam Tan: "It was a frightening experience as the four men tied all of us up. They asked us to be quiet, and we did not fight back.
"At that moment, I only thought about my grandchildren's safety. I am grateful that no one was hurt."
She said the men drove off in a white car.
The children's father, Mr Teo Han Leong, 48, who was at a friend's house, rushed home after he was informed of the incident.
Miss Teo said this was the fourth time the house had been broken into in the past 20 years.
The family had installed a security alarm, but it was not activated.
Meanwhile, Johor Baru Utara police chief Assistant Commissioner Ruslan Hassan told the New Straits Times that the police have given high priority to the case following the events that led to the robbery.
Said Asst Comm Ruslan: "Initial investigations have led us to believe that the suspects are a new armed gang that specialises in breaking into the homes and robbing victims in the wee hours of the morning.
"Police have also put out an all-points bulletin to police units in the district following the case."
He added that police will increase patrols in the area.
