It was a case of mistaken identity for a businessman who was abducted and tortured for three hours, reported Harian Metro.
"They tortured me with a welding iron and beat me with rotan and sticks," said the victim, who only wanted to be identified as Hamzi.
The 36-year-old told the tabloid that he was abducted near a mall in Bukit Bintang at 8.30pm last Thursday.
Hamzi said he had just parked his car to go shopping with his wife and four children when four men dragged him into a Honda Accord.
"One of them covered my head with a bag," said Hamzi, adding that the men assaulted him when he asked why they had abducted him.
"I was then brought to a jungle in Hulu Langat, where they tied up my hands and feet. They covered my face with a plastic bag before burning me all over my body with a welding iron," said Hamzi, who suffered burns to his face, abdomen, back, legs and arms.
"They only stopped after one of the men checked my MyKad. After they realised I was the wrong guy, they left me by the roadside at about 2am," said Hamzi.
"I was lucky that a resident was passing by at the time. With his help, I contacted my younger brother, who sent me to the Tengku Ampuan Rahimah Hospital," he said.
His wife subsequently lodged a report at the Jalan Tun H.S. Lee police station.
The men were believed to be involved in narcotics and looking for a man over RM6mil worth of syabu.
City CID chief Senior Asst Comm Datuk Ku Chin Wah confirmed receiving the report.
&gt; Kosmo! reported that several political observers believed that the general election would now be held after the tabling of the Budget on Sept 28.
Political analyst Prof Datuk Dr Zainal Kling said the Government would be in a stronger position to call for elections then.
"The Government would want to put in place incentives and new strategies for next year. I feel the general election will be called after the Budget is tabled," he said.
Datuk Dr Ramlah Adam, who shared Dr Zainal's sentiment, said the period after the tabling of the Budget would be the most suitable as public support for the Government would increase.
