KUALA LUMPUR - Toll collector Mohd Haffiz Zamri, 26, who was shot during a robbery at the Seremban toll plaza on Thursday, could not believe his ears when the doctor told him that they would have to amputate his right leg to save his life.
He was told that there was no other option as the bullets had damaged his blood vessels and shattered the bones in his leg.
"At first, I refused to let them do it, but my fiance and my family convinced me that it was the only way I could live," he said at the Kuala Lumpur Hospital (HKL) yesterday.
Mohd Haffiz's father, Seargent Mohd Zamri Sutin, 53, who is stationed at the Seremban II district police headquarters, said they had to make the decision quickly to save Haffiz's life.
"The doctor said Haffiz's heart and kidney will be affected in the long-run if we keep the leg. It was indeed the hardest decision to make, but we had no other choice."
Haffiz's leg was removed in a five-hour operation at HKL on Friday after he was transferred there from the Tuanku Jaafar Hospital in Seremban.
Recalling Thursday's incident, Haffiz said he was pillion riding with a colleague, Nurijah Rosli, carrying RM2,000 (S$818) toll collection money when he heard a loud bang at 10pm.
They were transferring money from the Seremban toll plaza north-bound exit of the North-South Expressway to the PLUS office when the robbers set upon them and fired three shots at them.
"It sounded like a burst tyre. I thought nothing until I felt a sting in my right leg and I heard another bang and this time, I fell."
Blood oozed from his leg while his colleague screamed as she was also injured.
"The suspect came and grabbed the bag from us and fled.
Haffiz, who is still shocked by the incident, said he could not believe that he had lost his leg for a mere RM2,000.
He said his plan to marry his fiance, Nor Faizan Abu Kassim, 27, in December had to be postponed.
Nor Faizan said the incident would not stop her from marrying Haffiz.
"I love him no matter what and we will get married when he is healthy enough."
Seremban police chief Assistant Commissioner Saiful Azly Kamaruddin said police were going through the closed-circuit television camera recordings to identify the robbers.
He urged those with information to contact Seremban police at 06-6014999.
