He received prostitutes at the airport when they arrived in Singapore and sent them to a designated apartment to stay.
He looked after their needs by sending them food and toiletries.
He even provided the women with condoms and lubricant whenever they required those items.
He also collected the earnings from the prostitutes.
For these acts, Wong Kin Kit, 27, was paid $50 daily.
The Singaporean faced a total of 10 charges. Four of the charges are for receiving Thai women for the purpose of prostitution in Singapore.
The rest are for knowingly living off part of the prostitution earnings of the women.
The prosecution proceeded with four of the 10 charges. The rest were taken into consideration during sentencing on Friday.
The judge sentenced him to three months of jail for each of the four charges. Two are to run concurrently, and the other two consecutively.
Investigations revealed that three of the prostitutes Wong was managing had been arranged by different vice agents in Thailand to come here for prostitution.
They were placed under the care of two Singaporean vice operators known as "Ah Nok" and"Ah Bee".
They were bound by a contract where they had to fulfil a verbal agreement of providing sexual services to 25 customers without payment.
In return, their air ticket to Singapore and food and lodging here were provided for free.
Once they had fulfilled the contract, they receive $80 for every customer.
"Ah Nok" and"Ah Bee" were found operating their vice syndicate on websites, where they posted the prostitutes' photographs.
One of the charges mentioned that one of the three prostitutes, 23, handed over about $6,000 of her earnings as a prostitute to either "Ah Nok", "Ah Bee" or Wong.
Wong kept part of the money as his salary which he spent on his daily expenses.
During his mitigation, he said: "I know that what I did was wrong and I stopped once I know it's wrong."
He added that he hopes "to be a good husband and a soon-to-be father".
The judge asked: "Do you require time to settle your personal affairs?" Wong declined the offer.
He said: "I don't want to postpone the sentence because my first child will come out in July. I hope I can work and support the family."
After the sentence was read out, Wong pleaded for leniency.
The judge pointed out that he had asked Wong if he needed time to settle his personal affairs.
The judge then said: "This is not a marketplace." Wong continued his pleas but the judge said he had taken all that into consideration.
Wong pleaded for a last chance but the judge said:"My sentence stands".
A crestfallen Wong was then handcuffed and led away.
