TOKYO - A 14-year-old student was arrested Monday on suspicion of assault for stabbing a bus driver in the chest the day before in Hachioji, western Tokyo.
According to police, the third-year middle school student has confessed to the charge.
He was quoted by the police as saying, "I intended to confine myself on the bus to show up my friends who had ridiculed me."
The Metropolitan Police Department plans to question him about the details of the attack, believing the boy had tried to hijack the vehicle.
According to a senior MPD official, the student shouted, "Close the front door and [passengers] move to the back!" on a bus that had just arrived at JR Nishi-Hachioji Station's north exit at 3.10pm on Sunday.
The bus driver, 37, was struck with what appeared to be a fruit knife. He sustained a 5-millimeter cut.
The student was at the end of a line of passengers waiting in line to pay the fare for the bus.
Evidently because he thought an elderly couple was taking too long to pay, the student suddenly took out a knife and started yelling loudly, the police said.
Immediately after that, the student allegedly stabbed the bus driver, who had grabbed the student's arm in an attempt to wrestle away the knife.
No passengers, including the elderly couple, were injured.
The student fled the scene, leaving a sports bag labeled with his name that contained items such as his cell phone, bank book and the knife sheath on the bus, police said.
The MPD tried locating the student and dispatched investigators to his house in Hachioji.
The student returned home shortly after 7.30pm, about 4-1/2 hours after the incident.
The police asked him to come voluntarily to Hachioji Police Station and arrested him shortly after 1pm Monday.
The student was quoted by the police as saying: "When I went to school for club activities on Sunday, I was ridiculed by my friends. I wanted to show them up."
Regarding the knife, the student reportedly said he bought it at a convenience store near the school and had discarded it after the attack. The police are looking for the knife.
