She holds respectable positions as the head of department and the subject head for history in her school.
But Lee Meng Choo from Junyuan Secondary School in Tampines was given two years probation on Monday after pleading guilty to three counts of maid abuse.
One more count of maid abuse was taken into consideration during sentencing.
The teacher, who was found to be suffering from dysthymia, a form of chronic depression, also agreed to go for follow-up psychiatric and psychological treatment.
Her husband was bonded for $5,000 to ensure her good behaviour.
Lee, 54, was also ordered to pay $10,950 to her former Indonesian maid, Ms Sri Maryati, 26.
In 2009, the teacher had told the maid that her work was not satisfactory and that she would be sent back.
But Ms Sri Maryati was facing some financial difficulties in Indonesia and badly wanted to remain employed here.
Lee then made a verbal agreement with her - that if she was to continue working for Lee, she would have to agree to be punished by caning if she repeatedly committed mistakes while doing her household chores.
Ms Sri Maryati agreed.
The court heard that Lee abused the maid in her flat at Block 856C Tampines Street 82 in July and August 2009.
On Aug 9 that year, Lee caned Ms Sri Maryati once on her left buttock as she suspected that the maid had used Lee's toothbrush to clean the edges of a basin.
About 15 minutes later, she pulled Ms Sri Maryati's left ear until it bled.
Lee caned Ms Sri Maryati again around 7.30am the next day after the maid was caught sleeping instead of checking her son's homework.
The maid was caned yet again about four hours later as she had set an alarm clock to go off at the wrong time.
The crime came to light after Ms Sri Maryati told another Indonesian maid, Ms Ramiyah, about her ordeal later that day, after she left Lee's flat to purchase some groceries at a nearby supermarket.
Ms Ramiyah told her employer and they took Ms Sri Maryati to the Tampines Neighbourhood Police Centre to make a report.
Lee's lawyer, Mr Subhas Anandan, told The Straits Times that his client is on leave and that she would return to work after a psychiatric examination finds her fit for duty.
For each charge of abusing her maid, Lee could have been jailed up to three years and fined a maximum of $7,500.
