SINGAPORE - Officers from the Ang Mo Kio police division arrested three men and two women aged between 17 and 38 years for suspected involvement in loansharking activities yesterday.
In the first case, a 38-year-old woman was arrested at about 12.30pm in the vicinity of Sembawang Crescent.
The suspect is believed to be a debtor-turned-runner who had assisted loansharks by carrying out ATM fund transactions and allowing her bank accounts and ATM cards to be used by the loansharks. Several ATM cards were seized from her possession.
In the second case, police arrested a 27-year-old man in the vicinity of Ang Mo Kio Avenue 3 at about 3.30pm. The suspected debtor-turned-runner is believed to have opened at least four bank accounts and given away his ATM cards with Personal Identification Number (PIN) to loanshark syndicates to facilitate their businesses.
At about 7.10 pm, another group of officers were on patrol when they received information pertaining to three suspicious characters spotted in the vicinity of Yishun Ring Road.
They detained two male subjects aged 20 and 23 years and a 17-year old female subject at the scene.
Loanshark-related paraphernalia comprising a bicycle chain and a marker were found on the two men.
All three were placed under arrest for suspected involvement in loanshark harassment.
Under the Moneylenders' Act 2010 (Revised Edition), when a bank account or ATM card of any person is used to facilitate moneylending by an unlicensed moneylender, that person is presumed to have assisted in the carrying on the business of unlicensed moneylending.
First-time offenders found guilty of assisting in the business of unlicensed moneylending may be fined not less than $30,000 and not more $300,000, be imprisoned for a term not exceeding four years and shall also be liable to be punished with caning not more than six strokes.
First-time offenders found guilty of loanshark harassment shall be fined not less than $5,000 and not more than $50,000 with mandatory imprisonment of up to five years and mandatory caning of up to six strokes.
candicec@sph.com.sg
