KUALA LUMPUR - Malaysian police said Thursday they arrested 137 people, mostly from China and Taiwan, as they busted a ring that bet on English football, staged Internet gambling, and carried out online scams.
Five of those arrested were Malaysians while the rest were from China and Taiwan, said Abdul Rashid Abdul Wahab, police chief of the city of Kajang where the ring was based.
"They were involved in football gambling, online gambling and in computer scam activities," he told AFP.
Abdul Rashid said the ring organised betting on English Premier League games, and other forms of online gambling.
It also carried out Internet scams that sought to obtain the credit card numbers of victims in China, Taiwan and Portugal by sending email notices claiming the recipients had debts they needed to pay.
He said the organisation appeared relatively sophisticated as the five bungalows raided by police on Thursday were equipped with closed-circuit televisions systems for security.
Police conducted the raid after receiving a tip-off.
The operation was one of the biggest such busts ever in the country, he said.
"For sure we will demand harsh punishments," Abdul Rashid said, adding that the charges in the case could lead to jail terms of up to 20 years and caning.
Gambling on football is illegal in Malaysia. Most other types of gambling also are illegal outside of the country's sole casino resort in the Genting Highlands near the capital Kuala Lumpur.
Aseh Che Mat, chairman of the Football Association of Malaysia's (FAM) transparency committee praised the bust.
"I praise the swift action by Malaysian police to wipe out this syndicate. Criminal syndicates must realise they cannot sustain their activities in Malaysia for long," he said.
Asian Football Confederation (AFC) general secretary Alex Soosay also hailed the raid.
"Gambling has been detrimental to the development of football in Asia," he said.
Malaysia has itself been dogged by longstanding concerns over match-fixing, fears that have spiked recently after FAM earlier this year suspended 18 youth players and banned a coach for life for fixing matches.
