The first individual to be charged under the new Section 294B of the Penal Code for payment for sexual services has been sentenced by the Magistrates Court yesterday to serve one month in jail after the defendant pleaded guilty to the offence.
Mohd Kandipurnama Hj Abd Latif, a 41-year-old Royal Brunei Armed Forces personnel was charged with intentionally obtaining the sexual services of Wang Yao, a national of the People's Republic of China, and before obtaining those services, did make payment to Yao in the amount of US$100 (S$128).
The incident occurred on June 12, at about 2106 hours, inside Room 307 of the KH Soon Services and Rest House, Jalan Pemancha, in the capital.
The court document states that Mohd Kandipurnama together with Yao checked into the rest house, after having met Yao in the vicinity of KH Soon Services and Rest House.
Mohd Kandipurnama was approached by Yao and another woman in the vicinity of the rest house. Yao and the other woman offered to perform sexual services to the defendant. The defendant chose Yao who informed him that it would cost US$100.
The defendant agreed to the price and Yao led him to KH Soon Services and Rest House where Mohd Kandipurnama paid US$20 to the receptionist to check into room 307.
Inside room 307, Mohd Kandipurnama paid US$100 to Yao and then both of them removed their clothes. Wang Yao put on a condom onto the defendant's genitals and she then performed oral sex on the defendant.
Before further sexual activities could be performed, police personnel from the Anti-Vice and Gambling Suppression Unit (Anti-Vice) raided the said room and arrested Mohd Kandipurnama and Yao. During investigations, the defendant admitted to having paid US$100 to Yao to obtain sexual services from her.
During the proceedings before the presiding judge Senior Magistrate Dk Masni Pg Bahar yesterday, Yao was also brought to court and she was charged with engaging in sexual services with Mohd Kandipurnama for payment in the amount of US$100.
Yao pleaded guilty to the offence and the senior magistrate subsequently sentenced the defendant to serve one month in jail. Meanwhile, another Chinese national, Zhang Xiulin, was also brought before the court and charged with loitering for the purposes of prostitution contrary to Section 294 (1)(b) of the Penal Code.
Zhang pleaded not guilty to the charge against her and the case will be mentioned again on June 21.
