KUALA LUMPUR: THE mastermind behind the kidnapping of Nayati Shamelin Moodliar has fled to Europe.
The 24-year-old flew out of Kuala Lumpur International Airport on May 5, two days after Nayati was released, on a Paris-bound flight.
Police here have now sought the help of Interpol in tracking down the suspect.
They are looking for Jan Yin Jiang from Taman Segar, Cheras, and Lee Phak Seng @ Seng Chai, from Taman Suntex, Cheras.
Federal CID director Datuk Seri Bakri Zinin said six of the duo's accomplices were nabbed in Chemor, Ipoh and Cheras, here, by a special task force earlier this week.
The six, including a woman, between the ages of 19 and 40, are locals who were not related or known to the victim and his family. Bakri said not all were directly involved but were with the suspects at the time of the arrests.
"We believe at least five people were in the group that planned and executed the kidnap."
The task force also recovered RM48,000 (S$19,700), believed to be part of the RM300,000 ransom paid by Nayati's parents, and the car which was used in the kidnapping.
Initial investigations revealed that the suspects were friends, with previous convictions for petty crimes. This was believed to be their first kidnap.
It was learnt that after the kidnap on April 27, the group had split up and gone separate ways. Each member had a specific task. Two were tasked with kidnapping the boy, one with negotiating with his parents, one to pick up the ransom and the others to look after him.
Nayati was believed to have been taken to a rented house in Chemor where he was held for six days.
Unlike in previous kidnap cases, the culprits here had contacted Nayati's family through a specially set up Facebook profile. It was learnt that all negotiations and demands were made through this social networking site.
The ransom was dropped off at an undisclosed location in Cheras on May 2. Within hours, the boy was released at the Rawang rest area along the North-South Expressway. It was learnt that police managed to track down the group through the IP address on one of the laptops used to contact Nayati's family. The laptop was found when police made the first round of arrests in Ipoh on Monday.
Bakri said the case had not followed the normal standard operating procedure of a kidnap investigation as it had received wide publicity from the very moment Nayati was kidnapped.
First, it was text messages and tweets describing the car, the two kidnappers and the boy. That was followed by Nayati's parents holding a press conference within hours of the incident, and on the same day, hundreds of posters of the missing boy were plastered all around the Klang Valley.
Bakri said this was a special case as the victim was a foreigner and the incident received wide coverage in many countries, including the Netherlands, Britain and South Africa. Police said there was no specific reason why Nayati was targeted. They believed that the kidnappers had targeted students of Mont Kiara International School, which is in an upmarket area.
Nayati, whose parents are expatriates, stays in a nearby condominium. He usually walked to school alone. His father, Sham Moodliar is a senior consultant in a management company, while his mother, Janice, is a housewife. Nayati has a younger sister.
