Katsuya Takahashi, under arrest for his role in the Aum Supreme Truth cult's deadly sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway system in 1995, claims he did not know there was sarin in the car he drove on the day of the crime, according to Tokyo police.
Takahashi, 54, who was arrested on Friday while leaving a Tokyo manga cafe, admitted driving the car to a subway station in central Tokyo on March 20, 1995, investigative sources with the Metropolitan Police Department said.
Although he saw "something containing brownish liquid" in the car, he had no idea the material was sarin, they cited Takahashi as saying.
At the time of the crime, Takahashi was a close aide to Yoshihiro Inoue, 42, chief of Aum's self-styled "intelligence ministry." Inoue is now on death row.
In spite of Takahashi's statement, the MPD believes he was in a position to know the material was sarin prior to the subway gassing incident, the sources said.
The investigators will further examine the case by questioning those who were senior Aum members at that time and other parties, they said.
According to final court rulings handed down on the senior cult members at the time of the Aum crimes, Takahashi was in charge of driving Toru Toyoda, 44, one of the cultists who directly carried out the sarin attack, to a subway station. Toyoda also sits on death row.
During interrogation, Takahashi told investigators he did see "something like a brownish liquid" while driving the car on the day of the sarin attacks, according to the sources.
He did not know the material was sarin, Takahashi told the interrogators, they said.
However, judging from statements given by individuals involved in the Aum offenses, the MPD believes Takahashi had most likely been informed by his boss Inoue of the plans to release sarin prior to the attack, and thus he was probably aware of the "brownish material" being sarin, the sources noted.
Following his arrest on Friday, Takahashi was willing to answer investigators' questions up until Saturday morning, they said. But he subsequently fell silent, only saying, "I can't afford to speak any more," they said.
They said the bag Takahashi was carrying with him at the time of the arrest contained cassette tapes of preaching by cult founder Chizuo Matsumoto, 57, also a convict on death row, and a portable cassette player.
