He opened his home to his then-colleague who had financial problems and no place to stay.
But Mr Arunja Miguel Benjamin, 31, didn't expect the man to be allegedly involved in the messy world of loan sharks.
One year after hemoved in, Mr Benjamin found the front door of his four-room flat in Ang Mo Kio splashed with green paint. He made the discovery on June 18 around 6.30am.
He also found an "O$P$" (owe money, pay money) sign scribbled on the lift landing with his unit number written underneath.
Said Mr Benjamin, who is now unemployed: "Immediately, I ransacked his room."
He claimed he found stacks of ATM transaction slips, notebooks containing names and records of ATM transfers and an ATM card bearing a stranger's name.
He also found a birth certificate as well as the former colleague's passport.
There were various documents left behind too, including one that allegedly revealed his bankruptcy status.
Suspecting that the man could be collecting debts for the loan sharks he owed money to, Mr Benjamin made two police reports - one for the paint splashing and another to put on record the paper trail he discovered in the man's room.
A police spokesman confirmed both reports, and said the police are investigating the paint splashing as harassment.
The most recent statistics available show that there has been a drop in the number of reported loan shark-related cases. There were 13,342 last compared to 16,834 in 2010.
Mr Benjamin said he cut ties with his former colleague because the latter was allegedly dishonest and constantly brought home female guests without telling him.
He said he told the man to move out, and the latter sent a text message to say he would remove his belongings by May 22.
Mr Benjamin returned home on June 1 and found that the man had already taken away some belongings.
Later that day, he received another text message to say the man would remove the rest on another day.
That was the last Mr Benjamin heard from him.
He said the man lived in his home rent-free and was expected to contribute to the monthly utilities. But he rarely did, he alleged.
They met in March last year while working at an engineering company. Mr Benjamin was a security officer and the man was a cleaning supervisor.
Two months later, the colleague moved in.
Last November, Mr Benjamin found out about the man's alleged involvement with the loan sharks.
He said: "I had just come home after a trip to Manila and my other tenant said my colleague got a phone call, and he was very skittish after that.
"Then he started working double shifts."
When he confronted him, the latter allegedly told him that he had a $2,500 debt he couldn't repay.
According to the man, an ex-colleague had taken a $1,000 loan and disappeared. As the guarantor, MrBenjamin's housemate was stuck with the debt that kept increasing. Said Mr Benjamin: "He said he was working day and night to pay off the debt."
It turned out that the man had also allegedly borrowed money from another tenant of Mr Benjamin's, who gave her name only as Miss Munni, to repay the debt.
Miss Munni, 49, was agitated when she spoke to The New Paper.She said angrily: "I don't want him to call me sister any more. My heart is very pain (sic)."
The Malaysian, who works as a cleaner here, claimed she was told the $1,000 loan was to repay a loan shark's debt.
For now, Mr Benjamin uses whatever clothes his former colleague left behind to clean up the mess on his door.
"People have taken advantage of me before, but this is absolutely the worst," he said.
