After the 32-year-old saga finally came to an end, Ms Lindy Chamberlain-Creighton heaved a sigh of relief.
Thirty-two years after a nine-week-old infant vanished from an Outback campsite in a case that bitterly divided Australians and inspired a Meryl Streep film, the nation overwhelmingly welcomed a ruling that finally closed the mystery.
Ms Chamberlain-Creighton and her then-husband, Mr Michael Chamberlain, always insisted that a dingo - a wild dog unique to Australia - snatched their baby.
However, her version of events was doubted by the Australian public, AFP reported.
Dangerous
A coroner in the northern city of Darwin concluded yesterday that a dingo had taken Azaria Chamberlain from her parents' tent near Ayers Rock, the red monolith in the Australian desert now known by its Aboriginal name, Uluru.
"We live in a beautiful country, but it is dangerous and we ask all Australians to be aware of this and take appropriate precautions," AAP quoted Ms Chamberlain-Creighton as saying.
Initially, she was jailed for murder and her then-husband given a suspended sentence for being an accessory.
Mr Chamberlain thanked the "courageous and independent coroner" for her finding, saying she was "speaking for the dead".
He told reporters: "This has been a terrifying battle. Bitter at times, but now, some healing and a chance to put our daughter's spirit to rest."
He maintained that justice could be achieved no matter how hard it seemed.
He said: "I'm here to tell you, you can get justice even when you think all is lost."
Mr Chamberlain also thanked the media for its "reporting based on facts" and the family's supporters throughout the ordeal.
He said: "If you know you are right, never give up on getting it right when a serious issue could affect the life and livelihood of others."
Coroner Elizabeth Morris detailed how the mother was alerted to a baby's cry and on returning to the tent, saw a dingo nearby.
Ms Chamberlain-Creighton raised the alarm, but despite an extensive search, the baby's body was never found.
The mother was jailed for murder, despite an initial inquest which backed her explanation that the baby was snatched.
The case inspired the 1988 hit film A Cry in the Dark, starring Meryl Streep and Sam Neill, along with books, a TV mini-series and even an opera, and was followed closely by foreign media.
Chance find
The convictions of Azaria's parents were overturned in 1988 after the chance discovery of a piece of her clothing near a dingo lair.
A third inquest in 1995 recorded an open finding in a case that continued to fascinate the Australian public.
The inquest was opened again after new information from the Chamberlains' counsel about dingo attacks, including a nine-year-old boy who was killed by a wild dog in 2001 and a two-year-old girl who died in 2005.
