He is an aeronautical engineering student at Imperial College London and his parents hold high positions in banks.
He could easily afford to buy what he needed.
Yet, Jeremy Kuek Beng Kiat, 23, a second-year undergraduate at one of Britain's top universities, stole eight boxes - or 136 bottles - of drinks, a 40kg sack of rice, a power plug and an extension plug.
All because he had run out of drinks in his fridge.
And he did this with his girlfriend, Ong Shi Han, also 23, a law graduate from the National University of Singapore who was on the dean's list.
The items were worth nearly $450.
Kuek committed the offences with Ong at around 1am on Nov 13 last year at the convenience store in the condominium where he lives.
They were waiting for their probation reports to be prepared for two previous cases of theft when they broke into the convenience store with a bolt cutter.
When Kuek and Ong were caught for stealing, they presented two receipts to the police as proof of purchase. But the receipts were later found to be forged.
The two, who were in court last Friday, face one charge of theft and one charge of fabricating evidence.
Two other charges of theft were taken into consideration.
Ong's case was adjourned for a further probation report to be prepared, but Kuek was jailed for a day and fined $3,000.
His lawyer, Mr Peter Low, called for a conditional discharge, but district judge Shaifuddin Saruwan disagreed.
The judge imposed a one-day jail term as he felt that Kuek was unlikely to re-offend.
Psychiatrists diagnosed Kuek with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and major depressive disorder.
In the two previous incidences of theft, Kuek and Ong stole $662 worth of cosmetics from two supermarkets.
Kuek was accompanied by his parents in court.
His mother, the head of treasury at a bank, whispered prayers as his case was heard, as his father, a regional head at a top local bank, fidgeted in his seat.
They seemed relieved at the sentence.
Kuek is supposed to return to school in London to retake his second-year examinations on May 29. Ong will be back in court next month.
