When Mr Louis Ng, executive director of Animal Concerns Research and Education Society (Acres), received an alert from a member of the public yesterday that a makeshift stall was selling what appeared to be tiger teeth, he went there to see it for himself.
Making his way down to the stall outside Kwan Im Thong Hood Cho Temple in Waterloo Street at around 1pm, Mr Ng saw a woman openly displaying pieces of jade and five alleged tiger teeth on the ground, reported The Straits Times.
Posing as an interested buyer, he asked the woman if the teeth were genuine. In reply, she claimed that they were real and that she had just flown in from China on Monday, hoping to sell her wares here.
Mr Ng proceeded to tip off the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority (AVA) about the stall, saying that "it was a blatant advertisement of illegal items."
An AVA officer arrived an hour later at 4pm.
However, by then two of the five teeth had already been sold. As Acres does not have enforcement powers, Mr Ng could not stop the aforementioned purchases.
Also posing as a buyer, the paper reported that the AVA officer made queries about the tiger teeth as well as the woman's knowledge about the laws on selling these items in Singapore. Mr Ng related that the woman said she only knew the sale of tiger skin was illegal here.
After identifying himself, the AVA officer then continued to seize the remaining goods and closed the stall.
According to folklore, tiger teeth are believed to be good luck charms, bringing protection to those who possessed them. However, there has been no scientific proof to these ideas.
The sale of tiger parts is illegal worldwide. 175 countries, including Singapore have ratified that tigers are protected under Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endagered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (Cites).
To further protect these endangered species, Singapore provides another law in the form of Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act. This law states that any kind of import, export, re-export or possession of these Cites species without a permit will allow you to face a fine of up to $500,000, and/or two years in jail.
These penalties apply even if the parts are fake.
A spokesman from the AVA have confirmed that the items were seized and also added that the seller is assisting them in further investigations.
Those who have bought the alleged tiger teeth can contact Acres' 24-hour hotline at 9783-7782.
