Seven victims over five years. Total amount swindled or stolen: $33,600.
But Tan Lee Koon, 38, was finally caught.
On 19 June,2012, she was sentenced to two years and nine months' jail after being convicted of 12 charges for criminal breach of trust, theft, criminal intimidation and cheating.
Another 26 charges - one count of theft, two counts of criminal intimidation and 23 counts of cheating - were taken into consideration during sentencing.
Taking into account all 38 charges, Tan got $52,500 from cheating, stealing from and/or intimidating 13 people.
She was investigated in 2008 but became uncontactable before she could be charged. A warrant of arrest was issued and she was finally taken into custody on Nov 11 last year.
She could not post bail and remained in jail.
Tan's first victim was Ms Karen Ng Hong Beng, 41.
They met in July 2006 while working for the same realty company.
Two weeks after meeting, Ms Ng moved in with Tan at the latter's invitation as she lived closer to the office.
Tan told Ms Ng about her "godbrother, James Tong", showing her a random picture of a man and claimed it was James, who worked in New York City.
She then used a prepaid card to text Ms Ng, pretending to be James, and began an online relationship with her.
From mid-August to early September that year, she cheated Ms Ng out of a total of $19,179.
Tan used a similar trick with her second victim, Mr Derrick Foo, 25, then a university student.
She created a fake Facebook profile for "Daffodil Yao"and used a random picture of an Asian girl.
As "Daffodil", who claimed to be a rich businessman's daughter, she befriended Mr Foo through Facebook in 2009.
She managed to swindle Mr Foo of $4,000. When Mr Foo tried to end the online relationship, "Daffodil" threatened to shoot him.
Tan's third victim, Mr Chia Swee Guan, 35, is the director of recycling company Hup Lee Leong Hardware. Tan, who was employed by the company, was entrusted with petty cash.
In late May 2010, she made off with $1,950 and did not turn up for work again.
Tan even preyed on children.
In 2010, she rented a room from Mrs Sarosati Devi, the mother of 13-year-old Vishaal Rai.
On Jan 27 last year, Tan asked Vishaal for a loan of $800. The boy gave her $700.
She then left the boy at a game shop, promising to pick him up later, but instead went back to the flat, packed up and disappeared.
Tan met her fifth victim, Ms Wong Khai Lin, 21, when they shared a room at a hostel.
Claiming to be an employee of a courier company, Tan said she could get Apple iPhones and iPads at $199 and $99 respectively.
Believing her, Ms Wong passed Tan $795 for three iPhones and two iPads on April 17 last year.
Tan promised to deliver the goods two days later, but then became uncontactable.
She then met her next victim while staying at another hostel.
She stole $3,000 from him, walked out of the back door and left by taxi when Mr Zhou Yao, 22, who worked there, went to buy dinner on Aug 13 last year.
Tan's final victim was Mr Tng Eng Seng, 59, owner of hardware shop Whampoa 88.
Mr Tng employed Tan as a sales assistant and cashier last October.
In early November, she took $1,570 in cash and 30 top-up cards worth more than $600 from the shop.
Tan was also entrusted with six envelopes containing the salaries for herself and five colleagues. She kept three envelopes containing $1,778 for herself.
Yesterday, Tan pleaded for leniency, saying that her family was going through hardship.
Her words did not impress District Judge Eddy Tham, who called her a "serial trickster".
Referring to Tan's similar prior convictions in 1996, he added: "You are totally unrepentant and unremorseful.
It's particularly reprehensible that your scam perpetuated on persons you developed a friendship with.
"You betrayed their trust and took advantage of their confidence in you. You preyed on their kindness."
Tan again tried to ask for a lower sentence, but was dismissed.
