They went to mobile phone shops and told their victims they were looking to sell two original Apple iPhones. But the victims were given imitation iPhones instead.
Yesterday, two Vietnamese men Nguyen Van Huu, 33, and Vo Minh Duc, 25, were sentenced to 24 months' and six months' jail respectively for their deception.
In early October last year, Nguyen told Vo that the two of them and a Vietnamese woman - Vo's lover - should travel to Singapore to sell the imitation iPhones.
On October 18, they arrived on social visit passes, with two original iPhones.
Nguyen had brought along a few imitation iPhones.
They bought a few more in the Chinatown area.
They committed the offences from Oct 20 to Oct 25 at eight mobile phone shops.
In one instance, Nguyen and the woman entered a shop, saying they wanted to sell the phones for $1,250 as they needed the money.
The shop assistant checked the two original iPhones and found them to be working.
Deception Nguyen and thewoman then told the assistant that they would redeem the phones for $1,300 a week later, after they had raised enough money.
Nguyen then wrapped the two original iPhones in a piece of paper. The woman told the assistant not to remove the wrapping as she did not want the phone damaged. They received $1,250 in cash.
The two left the shop and returned five minutes later to say they wanted to buy the phones back, their friends having already transferred them money.
The assistant agreed to let them buy back the phones for $1,270, and they left. Minutes later, the two returned, saying they would not be receiving money from friends and they wanted to sell the iPhones again.
This time, Nguyen had the two imitation iPhones wrapped in paper.
Assuming these to be the original iPhones, the assistant gave them $1,250.The assistant realised what had happened two days later and made a police report.
Nguyen faced three charges of cheating, with five more taken into consideration.
Vo was charged for receiving money from mobile phone shop owners, even as he knew it came from his accomplices' actions.
