Two Malaysian men have been jailed six years each for installing devices at ATMs in Singapore that could capture customer data so as to make false ATM cards for cash withdrawals.
The Straits Times reported that Loke Siew Fei, 27, and Hng Gaik Chin, 39 pleaded guilty to possessing ATM card skimming devices and using them on two automated teller machines.
They were arrested on Jan 12, 2012 in their room at Kim Tian Hotel in Geylang after police received a tip-off.
Local news reports said that their arrest came at a time when investigators and the public were reeling from a spate of fraudulent withdrawals involving DBS and POSB ATMs.
However, The Straits Times reported that Deputy Public Prosecutor Christopher Ong said Loke and Hng were probably working for the same syndicate but Senior District Judge See Kee Oon said there was not enough evidence to link their cases to last year's ATM fraud.
The court heard that the duo were recruited by the syndicate last December by a Malaysian called Chin Yew Pong, who is still at large.
Two men, believed to be eastern Europeans, taught Loke and Hng how to use the card skimming devices.
They arrived in Singapore on Jan 9 and, two days later, installed a skimmer at a DBS ATM machine in Bugis Village.
In two hours, they collected data from 100 customer accounts from more than 200 transactions by bank customers, and a pinhole camera captured the PIN numbers, reported The Straits Times.
However, according to local news reports, none of the accounts were misused and there was no actual monetary loss to customers.
The data was e-mailed to Malaysia but it was deemed not good by Chin who called Loke to repair the skimmer.
The Straits Times reported that on Jan 12, Hng tested the device at a UOB ATM in Sims Avenue with Loke's credit card but were nabbed soon after.
The other persons involved in the syndicate have not been arrested.
Both men could have been jailed up to 10 years and fined up to $10,000 each for having the card-skimming devices.
Banks now send SMS alerts for ATM withdrawals to customers who have requested overseas use as well as for all ATM withdrawals above a certain limit.
spanaech@sph.com.sg
