Police have arrested four men aged between 30 and 55 years for suspected involvement in loansharking activities in four separate cases.
In the first case, officers from Central Police Division arrested a 42-year-old man in the vicinity of Hougang Street 61 for opening bank accounts and giving away his ATM cards PIN to loanshark syndicates to facilitate their unlicensed moneylending businesses.
One bank card and several bank transactions receipts were also seized from the suspect as case exhibits.
In the second case, while officers were conducting anti-crimes patrol in the vicinity of King Geroges' Street, they arrested a 55-year-old man suspected for being a debtor-turned-runner who assisted loanshark syndicates to perform electronic fund transactions via ATM.
Upon his arrest, four ATM cards, a mobile phone believed to contain debtors' records and cash amounting to $400 were seized.
In the third case, the same officers were on their rounds in the vicinity of Jalan Sultan when they spotted the 30-year-old man making multiple ATM transactions and behaving suspiciously.
When checked, the officers found loanshark-related paraphernalia including a mobile phone containing suspected debtors' records, five bank cards and a stack of ATM transaction receipts in the suspect's possession.
He was placed under arrest and the items were seized as case exhibits.
Preliminary investigations revealed that the suspect is a debtor of several illegal moneylenders and believed to have assisted these loansharks in their businesses by carrying out bank transfers.
In the last case, officers from Jurong Police Division were conducting anti-crimes patrol in the vicinity of Woodlands Civic Centre where they arrested a 40-year-old man suspected to be a debtor-turned-runner and is believed to have assisted the loanshark syndicates to perform electronic funds transactions via ATMs.
Four ATM cards, one handphone containing debtors' records, a stack of bank transactions receipts and cash amounting to $970 were seized from him when arrested.
Investigations against the man in the first case are ongoing.
The suspects for the second, third and last case will be charged in court tomorrow for the offence of assisting in loansharking activities.
First-time offenders found guilty of assisting in the carrying out of the business of an unlicensed moneylender may be fined between $30,000 and $300,000, be imprisoned for a term not more than four years and shall also be liable to be punished with caning with not more than six strokes.
spanaech@sph.com.sg
