THE suspect who allegedly robbed a 17-year-old girl of her handbag and then molested her at Woodlands Drive two Saturdays ago has been nabbed.
The incident on June 16 made the front page of The New Paper, as the closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera in the lift where the alleged crime was committed turned out to be a dummy.
On Wednesday the girl went to the Jurong Police Divisional Headquarters with her father to identify the suspect.
Neither the girl nor her father can be named as the former could be a victim of molest.
"We went to identify him, and my daughter recognised him," said the father.
"Now we just leave everything in the hands of the law for the judge to sentence him and punish him."
The 44-year-old taxi driver added that he was glad the suspect had been arrested, so that he will not have the opportunity to "prey on other girls like my daughter".
"It's really good that he's off the streets," he said.
His family breathed a sigh of relief when they received the news from the police at 11am yesterday. They had been worried the man might return.
As for his daughter, she is "very, very happy" and won't have to be afraid any more, said the father.
"She told us (her parents) that she can now go out as normal, but will definitely let us know of her whereabouts."
The father said his daughter was traumatised by the incident and would not leave the house. She would just stay in her room, too afraid to come out.
"The few days after the incident, she kept crying non-stop," he said.
The teen girl said she was still angry with the suspect.
"I can still remember his face, even now," she said.
Even if the accused apologised, the father said it would be hard to forgive him for his actions.
"I had to stop working for about three or four days after the incident, because I just couldn't concentrate while driving," he added.
He took up the responsibility of caring for his daughter as his 40-year-old wife has just started a new job at a hospital and he did not want to disrupt her work.
Said the father: "Usually I work for 14 to 15 hours a day. However, in the days after the incident, I worked less than three hours a day and was barely able to cover the rental cost (of my cab)."
Even when he worked, he only drove around the Woodlands area.
The taxi driver added that he would also go on regular patrols around the void deck and lift lobbies of his block when he was not working.
The police said the suspect was arrested yesterday at about 8am in his flat in Woodlands.
He will be charged in court today for robbery and an additional charge of outraging the modesty of a woman.
For robbery, he can be jailed between three and 14 years, and caned. For outrage of modesty, he can be jailed between three and 10 years and caned.
Commander of Jurong Police Division, Assistant Commissioner of Police Florence Chua, praised the officers involved in the case for their meticulous investigation, follow-up and teamwork, which led to the swift arrest of the suspect.
While he had been initially upset that the CCTV camera in the lift was not working, the girl's father was glad the police managed to arrest the suspect in such a short time.
"I am really very impressed by their quick action and am very thankful that they managed to catch the
suspect so fast," he added.
