Two women were among four people nabbed in an islandwide operation targeting drink drivers.
Held early on Saturday morning between midnight and 1.30am, the operation conducted by the Traffic Police saw road blocks set up on North Buona Vista Road, Dairy Farm Road, Fort Road, Buangkok East Drive, Tampines Avenue 10 and Thomson Road.
When The New Paper on Sunday team arrived at Buangkok East Drive, traffic had built up as the road checks had started.
TNPS saw a van filled with suspected errant drivers.
A woman who was arrested could not get into the van.
She was escorted by a woman officer to a patrol car instead.
The group of three friends who were with her seemed nonchalant and even snapped photos of the news photographers at work.
The woman driver was also unperturbed and was making calls on her mobile phone while she was in the police car.
A statement released by the Traffic Police said that the breathalyser test was administered to 21 motorists.
Of them, two men and two women failed the test and were arrested.
The highest breathalyser result registered was 42 micrograms of alcohol per 100ml of breath, above the prescribed legal limit of 35 micrograms of alcohol per 100 ml of breath.
Drink driving has come under scrutiny again in recent weeks following some high-profile crashes.
In one, a 30-year-old man was arrested and charged after his Lexus crashed into a taxi at the Rochor-Victoria junction, where a fatal accident involving a Ferrari and a taxi had taken place just a fortnight before.
Police officers carrying out an enforcement operation at the junction saw the suspect beat the red light.
He was later given a breathalyser test, which found that he had 42 micrograms of alcohol per 100ml of breath - above the legal limit of 35 micrograms.
Another accident involving an Audi and a lorry late last month on the East Coast Parkway left three injured and one dead.
The driver of the Audi fled on foot but was later arrested on suspicion of drink driving.
Drink drivers, on conviction, will be disqualified from driving for at least 12 months.
They may lose their driving licences and have to retake the theory and practical driving tests to obtain their driving licences again.
Also, first-time offenders can be fined between $1,000 and $5,000, or jailed up to six months.
Repeat offenders may be punished with a mandatory jail term of up to three years and a maximum fine of $30,000.
They may also be caned up to six strokes should death or serious injury be caused.
The Commander of Traffic Police, Assistant Commissioner of Police Cheang Keng Keong, said: "Drink drivers who cause an accident not only face various charges depending on the severity of the accident, they will also have to live with the guilt of recklessly destroying other innocent lives. So be wise, never drink and drive."
