A Singaporean living in Johor Baru was stabbed to death on Saturday night after what newspapers described as gang negotiations gone wrong.
Mr Chang Jeng Wei, 49, was attacked at a food court in Johor Baru at about 9pm,reported Lianhe Wanbao and Shin Min Daily News.
Together with some friends, Mr Chang,who had been working as a waiter, met a Malaysian gang for talks at the eatery, which is about a 30-minute drive from his workplace.
It is not known what they were negotiating, but the talks did not seem to have gone well.
Witnesses told Lianhe Wanbao that the two groups of men had raised their voices, creating a ruckus.
As the talks were breaking down, the other gang called another group to the scene. When the new group arrived, one of them headed straight for Mr Chang and plunged a knife into his chest.
When his friends saw what had happened, they yelled at his attacker to stop.
One of them shouted: "If you stab him again, he'll die!"
A worker at a car repair factory nearby told Lianhe Wanbao that Mr Chang ran about50mbefore falling to the ground in front of another food court.
Shin Min reported that his attackers fled the scene in cars.
The boss of the food court, a 52-year-oldwoman,told Lianhe Wanbao that the attack was over within minutes.
When reporters visited the scene yesterday morning, a 4m-long blood trail was still evident.
Mr Chang and his ex-wife,who have a 17-year-old child, were divorced a few years ago, reported Wanbao.
After moving to Johor Baru two years ago, he lost touch with his family.
When reporters spoke to his sister yesterday, she said that she was trying to get in touch with the ex-wife.
Mr Chang's boss expressed shock at his death: "He had got off work at about 5pm and was meeting his friends to just have a bite. I never imagined he would be stabbed to death.
"When I received a call from the police notifying me of what had happened, I contacted his family immediately," he said, adding that as an employee,Mr Chang was pleasant and mild-tempered.
Shin Min reported that in 1995, Mr Chang's father, who ran a car workshop, wanted his son to succeed him.
However, Mr Chang said he had other ideas of his own to pursue and declined his father's offer.
