Nine men and one women aged between 20 and 57 have been arrested by the police for suspected involvement in loansharking activities in two separate cases.
In the first case, officers conducted simultaneous raids at Jurong West, Clementi, Woodlands, Tampines and Hougang in a twelve-hour operation on April 4.
Nine suspects were arrested in the crackdown. Several bank cards were seized from the suspects.
Preliminary investigations revealed that the suspects are believed to have opened bank accounts and gave away their Automated Teller Machine (ATM) cards and Personal Identification Numbers (PIN) to loan shark syndicates to facilitate their unlicensed moneylending businesses.
Police investigations are ongoing.
Those found guilty of assisting an unlicensed moneylender can be fined between $30,000 and $300,000, jailed up to four years and can also be caned up to six strokes.
In a separate case, on 5 Apr 2012 at 3.25 am, a 33-year-old man lodged a police report claiming that someone had set fire to the window of his Jalan Bukit Merah residence.
Officers who responded to the scene detained a 27- year-old suspect in the Jalan Bukit Merah area.
Loan shark-related items such as a marker, one lighter, one bicycle lock, one can of Zippo liquid fuel and some bank transaction receipts were found in the suspect's possession.
The items were seized as case exhibits.
Preliminary investigations revealed that the suspect is believed to be responsible for setting fire to a debtor's residence, splashing paint and scrawling loan shark-related graffiti on walls reported on the same morning at Jalan Bukit Merah.
The 27-year-old suspect will be charged in Court on April 7 for loanshark harassment. Under the Moneylenders' Act 2010 (Revised Edition).
Those found guilty of acting on behalf of an unlicensed moneylender, committing or attempting to commit any acts of harassment can be jailed up to five years, fined between $5,000 and $50,000 and can also be caned between three and six strokes.
Commander of Central Police Division, Assistant Commissioner of Police Tan Hung Hooi commended his officers for their perseverance and commitment.
He said the police will continue to step up enforcement to clamp down on loansharking activities and their runners.
