KUALA LUMPUR - Police have detained three youths in connection with the brutal assault-cum-robbery of Noorhusna Aisyah Abdul Malek at a popular shopping complex here last Friday.
One of them, a 19-year-old woman, was later freed on police bail.
The first to be picked up was a 21-year-old, who has a previous conviction for theft and is believed to have carried out the attack. He was detained at an apartment in Taman Desa yesterday.
Police found several automated teller machine and credit cards belonging to Noorhusna Aisyah at the apartment during the 3am raid.
Police later arrested the woman, believed to be the suspect's fiancee, and a 16-year-old student who received RM50 (S$20) from the main suspect to help him sell Noorhusna Aisyah's mobile phone.
Police are attempting to locate the phone which was sold for RM800.
Police also recovered a pair of jeans, a belt, a T-shirt and a parang allegedly used to slash Noorhusna Aisyah during the robbery.
Brickfields deputy police chief Superintendent Aida Abdul Hamid said police had obtained a remand order to hold the main suspect and the student until Sunday.
Noorhusna Aisyah, 24, a technical executive at a private company, was slashed on the head, stabbed in the chest and kicked by a burly assailant in the car park of the Mid Valley Megamall as she was about to enter her car at 9.50pm.
She had put up a fight, screaming loudly despite being warned against it by the robber.
The suspect had a backpack, which he had allegedly borrowed from his fiancee. Noorhusna Aisyah had just walked past him when he grabbed her from behind. He held a sharp weapon to her neck and pushed her to the ground.
When she screamed, the suspect slashed her on the head. He also stabbed her in the chest but she held on to the knife and bit his hand.
The robber then kicked her repeatedly and stepped on her right shoulder while she was on the ground.
In agony, Noorhusna Aisyah let go of her valuables, including her wallet with RM200.
Noorhusna Aisyah was sent to University Malaya Medical Centre for outpatient treatment.
In light of this attack and to prevent other incidents, "panic" buttons have been installed at Mid Valley Megamall.
One push of the button will alert security personnel, who can also be reached via intercom. These are located at several places on each floor of the car parks.
The security hotline operates round the clock and can be reached at 03-29383244 for the mall and 03-22898777 for The Gardens.
A security escort service for customers to collect their vehicles is available at Zone A, P1 and Zone B, P2, via the information counters and the security hotline.
There are also more than 200 closed-circuit television cameras in the car parks.
Frequency of patrols has also been increased with additional guards on duty.
