KUALA LUMPUR: POLICE have described the detainee who escaped from the Jalan Duta Court Complex on Friday as a dangerous man.
The 32-year-old man, leader of a gang dubbed Man Kuchai Gang and responsible for a spate of robberies at convenience stores in Brickfields, is said to be violent and hurt his victims during the robberies.
The gang was named after Mohd Redzuan Abd Rahman, who is also known as Man Kuchai or Man Che Indon.
It is understood that Redzuan and his gang members, who were also active in car robberies, would stage road accidents to rob their victims of their valuables and vehicles.
City police chief Datuk Mohmad Salleh said his gang had also impersonated policemen during some of the robberies and had, on several occasions, shown a firearm to victims during robberies.
"He is a dangerous man and had acted violently during his crime spree. Do not act on your own if you see him. Please call the police," he said after yesterday.
Mohmad said Redzuan, whose last known address was at 2-07-7, Jalan 7/116B, Kuchai Enterprenurs Park, Kuala Lumpur, was to have been charged with four criminal offences at the court complex on the day he escaped from police custody.
The cases were for causing injuries to his victim during robberies, impersonating a policeman during robberies and an armed robbery which took place in Cheras, Petaling Jaya and Brickfields last year and early this year.
On the escape, Mohmad said police had recorded statements from other detainees who were with him in the court complex.
He said they were also investigating if the escape was a result of police negligence.
He said Redzuan had previously tried to escape police custody at the Jinjang police station last year, but failed.
It is learnt that on Friday, while being transported from Sungai Buloh Prison to the court complex with 45 other detainees, Redzuan managed to loosen his handcuffs using a paperclip.
Those with information on Redzuan's whereabouts are urged to contact the nearest police station or the city police headquarters at 03-21159999.
