He made a series of claims to suggest he was a rich man.
Dubbed the "eBay millionaire", Benjamin Marc Wee Tshung Mun, 40, then duped Mr Neo into handing him $25,000 on April 1, 2009.
Yesterday Wee pleaded guilty to one count of cheating.
Mr Neo, a manager in his 40s, said that despite Wee's extravagant claims, Wee actually lives in a HDB flat.
He will be sentenced on April 27.
Wee, who is the co-author of the book Secrets of eBay Millionaires had claimed that he made a fortune buying and selling items online.
The court heard that he used to run an Internet commerce company known as WTF. Wee had also conducted workshops and in 2009 even appeared on a Channel NewsAsia talk show in a segment on successful Internet entrepreneurs.
But now the disgraced Wee could spend up to 10 years behind bars and be fined for cheating MrNeo.
Website
There is even a website on Wee and it states that it "exposes the lies and scams of the fake eBay 'millionaire'".
Mr Neo told TNP that he first met Wee at the annual Asia Internet Congress in December 2008.
"I remember that Benjamin was named the best speaker at the event and I guess I was taken in by his purported accolades."
Deputy Public Prosecutor (DPP) Nicholas Ngoh told the court that Wee had claimed that he had "amassed large profits amounting to millions of dollars" by sourcing for cheap products in China before selling them on eBay.
In March 2009, DPP Ngoh said that Mr Neo and his wife went on a trip to China, organised by Wee and his firm.
While there, Wee showed participants places where they could source for products which could then be sold online.
Wee contacted Mr Neo on March 31, 2009, and offered him a business opportunity.
Wee then asked him to hand over $25,000 with a promise that the money would be used to buy Secure Digital (SD) memory cards from China.
Wee also claimed that the cards would be sold at a high profit online.
Mr Neo met him at Serangoon Gardens the next day and handed him a cheque for $25,000.
DPP Ngoh said that Mr Neo then found it increasingly difficult to contact Wee.
On occasions when he did manage to get him, Mr Neo would ask Wee for a receipt to show that he had bought the SD memory cards.
However, the court heard, Wee always claimed that he was busy and never provided such documentation to Mr Neo.
Mr Neo told TNP that he later found that Wee had been invited to speak at the 2009 Asia Internet Congress.
"I confronted him at the event and asked him to return my money. He promised to give it back but this turned out to be another empty promise."
Frustrated, Mr Neo filed a police report against Wee on Aug 4, 2010.
The court heard that Wee had made no restitution to Mr Neo.
His victim was in court yesterday as Wee pleaded guilty."
ashaffiq@sph.com.sg
