In a two day island-wide blitz, Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) officers arrested a total of 137 suspected drug offenders and seized $160,000 worth of drugs.
Approximately 1kg of heroin, 43 grammes of "Ice" and other assortment of drugs were seized. Out of the 137 suspects, 14 are allegedly involved in drug trafficking activities.
A 15-hour operation conducted in the eastern parts of Singapore, involving CNB officers as well as police officers, resulted in the arrest of 76 suspected drug offenders. Contraband cigarettes were also seized.
At about 5pm on May 8, CNB officers and the police raided a HDB unit at Eunos Crescent. Two men, aged 28 and 54, were arrested. Heroin, "Ice" and numerous drug paraphernalia were recovered within the unit, including improvised drug-smoking apparatus, aluminum foil and a digital weighing scale.
Both men will be investigated for drug trafficking. If convicted, they may face a minimum of five years' imprisonment and five strokes of the cane.
In another raid later that day, a 46-year-old man was arrested after a team of CNB and police officers forced their way into a HDB unit at Chai Chee.
About 11 grams of herion, small amount of "Ice" and drug paraphernalia were recovered.
Investigation into the drug activities of the man is currently ongoing.
On the same day, CNB officers arrested a 43-year-old man who is believed to be distributing drugs from a HDB flat in Jurong West.
At about 5pm, CNB officers arrested a 40-year-old drug client of the trafficker in the vicinity of the flat and recovered about 40 grams of heroin from him.
Another couple, a 45-year-old man and a 31-year-old woman, was arrested an hour and a half later at the foot of the HDB block. They are suspected to be drug clients of the trafficker and heroin was also recovered from them.
The suspected trafficker had attempted to flee when he discovered that the couple was arrested but was detained by CNB officers after a short chase through the staircase of the block.
His hideout was raided and 290 grams of heroin and cash amounting to $2,350 were found in the unit.
The suspect will be investigated for drug trafficking. If convicted, he may face the death penalty.
In a separate operation conducted in the afternoon of May 8, CNB officers foiled a drug transaction in the vicinity of Geylang Lorong 36.
Two suspected drug traffickers, a 53-year-old and a 58-year-old male Singaporean, were spotted meeting up and parted ways.
CNB officers intercepted the car which the 58-year-old man was driving at the junction of Sims Avenue and Paya Lebar Road.
He was arrested and about 500 grams of heroin and a small amount of cannabis was found in his car.
Another team intercepted a car which the other suspect was driving along Geylang Road. He was arrested as well and cash amounting to $10,439 was found in his car.
The suspect was brought back to his hideout in Serangoon North, where officers arrested his associate, a 52-year-old man, inside the unit. Heroin and "Ice" was also found.
Both the 53-year-old and 58-year-old male will be investigated for drug trafficking. If convicted, they may face the death penalty. Investigation into the role of the 52-year-old male is ongoing.
Mr Ng Ser Song, Director of CNB said that this "intense operation" is another effort to "weed out drug traffickers and curb the supply of drugs in Singapore.
klim@sph.com.sg
