He was taking a breather in his stationary car after sending a female friend home on Saturday afternoon.
The last thing the 29-year-old expected was to be repeatedly stabbed through his car window, which had been wound down.
The man, who is known only as Mr Goh, had parked his car at the foot of an HDB block at Choa Chu Kang Drive, reported newspapers Shin Min Daily News and Lianhe Wanbao.
Soon after his friend alighted from his car, at about 5pm, a man armed with a knife approached him and stabbed him repeatedly. The attacker, believed to be in his 40s, fled to the nearby multi-storey carpark and escaped in a car.
Mr Goh told Wanbao that he does not know his attacker . Shin Min reported that Mr Goh was stabbed four times while Wanbao said he was stabbed a total of seven times.
He suffered multiple knife wounds on his face, neck and arm.
Shocked and in pain, Mr Goh, who is reportedly divorced, stumbled into a lift serving Block 687B, leaving a 15m trail of blood behind him.
It is believed he was trying to reach his friend,who lives on the 14th storey.
An ambulance arrived soon after and Mr Goh was taken to Khoo Teck Puat Hospital. Police officers turned up in eight cars and K-9 dogs were also activated to try to track down the assailant.
Residents said the area was cordoned off for about seven hours for police investigations.
A witness told Wanbao that he saw Mr Goh being taken into the ambulance. He was covered in blood and had his arm bandaged.
Shin Min said Mr Goh used to own a trading company, which he reportedly wound up four years ago.
It is not known what he is doing now.
When The New Paper visited the scene yesterday afternoon, the lift which Mr Goh used, one of three in the block, was still not in use.
Residents in the area, who declined to be named, told TNP that they saw puddles of blood on the floor of the lift.
Mr Goh's neighbours in Bukit Panjang told Wanbao that he had moved back to live with his mother after getting divorced three to four years ago.
They added that he often brought female companions home.
They also saw his former wife visiting the home and allegedly creating a ruckus in the past. They speculated that the attack might have been related to money or matters of the heart.
Mr Goh reportedly lost his wallet containing about $500, although it is uncertain if his assailant had taken it or Mr Goh had lost it under other circumstances.
Mr Goh, who is in stable condition, has been discharged from the hospital.
The police have confirmed the incident, and are investigating the attack as a case of intentionally causing grievous hurt using dangerous weapons.
