JOHOR BARU - Paul Rajamanickam may have to live on with a bullet lodged in his neck, as a "badge of honour" for trying to fend off a robbery at a money-changer's outlet in Holiday Plaza shopping mall on Tuesday evening.
The 50-year old security guard who regained consciousness after a surgery to remove three out of five bullets on Wednesday, said the doctor had informed him the one lodged in his neck had nestled in a cluster of nerves and an operation would be too dangerous.
"He told me the bullet for now does not affect my motor system, so I should be able to move without problems. He said removing it would be risky. I may have to live with it," he said when met at the Sultanah Aminah Hospital yesterday.
Paul's body was riddled with five bullets shot by robbers armed with two semi-automatic pistols in the 8pm incident.
The criminals managed to escape with a sling bag stashed with more than S$40,000 (S$40,739) with a vehicle driven by an accomplice.
As of now, Paul would be undergoing another surgery to remove a bullet from his right hip as it could cause a permanent disability if left untreated.
Recounting the incident, Paul said he was escorting his employer into the outlet at a shopping mall, when several masked men came out from a car and grabbed the sling bag from his employer.
"As I was reaching for my shotgun the robbers shot me first. I fell and passed out. I was told they managed to get away," he said, adding that he was grateful to have survived such an attack.
However, the incident had left Paul to reconsider his job as a security guard.
"After eight years as a guard, I may quit my job after this. I still can move and I don't feel numb although the bullet in my neck may remain there forever. I can still find another job," said Paul.
Accompanying Paul was his adopted daughter, 31-year old M. Kumutha. She hoped that the Social Security Organisation (Socso) would hand out compensation for Paul's grave injuries.
"But I am glad that many have come to visit to give moral support and prayed that he would recover soon."
Meanwhile, Johor deputy police chief Datuk Ismail Yatim said initial investigations revealed that there were four suspects involved in the heist.
"A close circuit television camera recording revealed that the fourth suspect was waiting in a car nearby.
"A taskforce has been formed to track the criminals," said Ismail.
