PARIS - French police said Monday they were checking whether the murder suspect dubbed the "Canadian Psycho" may have fled Paris for other parts of France or Europe through an international bus station.
A source close to the probe said police were investigating whether Luka Rocco Magnotta, a 29-year-old former Canadian gay porn star suspected of killing and filming the dismemberment of his boyfriend, fled via the station in the Parisian suburb of Bagnolet, where he was traced to during the weekend.
An employee at Eurolines, which operates buses travelling throughout France and Europe from the station, confirmed to AFP that police had visited the station.
"We are not authorised to ask for identification documents for a trip in Europe, except to England. If he was registered under a false identity and paid in cash, it will be like looking for a needle in a haystack," said the employee, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
The station is equipped with surveillance cameras and several Eurolines employees said police had viewed footage on Monday.
One employee said police had shown various staff a photograph of Magnotta. One claimed to have seen Magnotta board a bus to Berlin on Friday night while another said someone bearing a close resemblance to the suspect had boarded a bus for Romania.
Eurolines management refused to comment on the matter.
Citing witnesses and material evidence, police said Sunday they were certain that Magnotta "is or was in the Paris region and particularly in Paris since at least Friday."
With the help of Magnotta's cell phone signal, police traced him to a hotel in Bagnolet, which they visited Saturday on a tipoff from a witness, a source close to the investigation said Sunday.
Magnotta had left his hotel room where police found items such as pornographic magazines and airsick bags bearing the logo of the airline on which he left Canada for France more than a week ago, the source said.
Magnotta's cell phone signal was detected Saturday in the east of Paris, he added.
French police launched "targeted searches" for Magnotta after Canadian investigators said he boarded a France-bound plane on May 26 in Montreal.
The suspect has been dubbed Canadian Psycho by the press because a video circulating online and believed to be linked to him shows a man stab another man with an ice pick and dismember him while a song from the film "American Psycho" plays in the background.
Interpol on Thursday issued a Red Notice wanted-persons alert for Magnotta, also known as Eric Clinton Newman and Vladimir Romanov, to its 190 member countries after a video of the grisly killing surfaced online.
The murder came to light when Canadian police said Tuesday that a human foot had been sent to the headquarters of Canada's ruling Conservative Party.
A hand was later found in the mail at an Ottawa post office, and a torso was discovered in Montreal. Canadian police believe the remains belong to a man who was dating Magnotta - and that Magnotta is to blame.
The victim, a student identified as Lin Jun, had been "in a relationship" with the porn star, according to Montreal police.
