Singapore Apple fans welcomed the long-belated arrival of the brand's iTunes store yesterday, with IT and music-industry experts expecting it to be a huge hit here.
But some hiccups have plagued the online media store.
Despite over 28 million tracks from major record labels and indie labels, there are still albums and singles not available in the Singapore iTunes store.
For instance, a my paper check reveals that only six out of more than 100 albums by popular Japanese composer Joe Hisaishi, and one out of four albums from American alternative-rock band Dishwalla are on sale here.
Indie music lovers also say that obscure music, such as the 2011 album by Norwegian musician Ane Brun, is not on sale too.
Yet others, including the Media Development Authority (MDA) and SingTel, were displeased that R21 movies, such as The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo, were on sale yesterday. A spokesman for MDA said it has contacted Apple.
"All companies offering media content to Singapore should abide by local regulations and operate in a manner which is consistent with community norms and values," she said.
"We will work with them so that the Singapore iTunes store can help consumers make informed media choices."
Mr Cheong Hai Thoo, SingTel's director of content and media services, said its mioTV content "conforms to the Censorship Review Committee's rating standards which currently do not permit R21 content".
Pay-TV providers can offer only titles with ratings up to M18.
"We hope that the regulatory framework would provide a level playing field for parties who wish to offer R21," he said.
Apple has since taken the R21 movies down.
Previously, Singapore users could buy only applications from iTunes. Now, they have access to its music and movies.
A single track costs S$1.28, while albums start from S$5.98 and can go up to anywhere between S$16.98 and S$24.98.
Users can rent films starting from S$3.98 or buy them from S$12.98.
The titles range from blockbusters such as Harry Potter And The Deathly Hallows Part 2 (2011), to old-time favourites like Ghostbusters (1984).
Ms Shalini Verma, principal analyst in consumer technology and markets from tech-research firm Gartner, said the store is the "most comprehensive" platform globally.
But as music is a "very personal thing, there will always be some tunes that users will not be able to find on iTunes".
Ms Melissa Chau, IDC Asia-Pacific's research manager for phones and tablets, said the iTunes store looks set to take off here.
"They already have a ready base of fans to sell to," she said, adding that some 1.3 million iPhones and 500,000 iPads were shipped to Singapore last year.
The managing director of music label Rock Records, Mr Ngiam Kwang Hwa, said the store's presence will help reduce piracy.
"Many who download illegally claim there isn't a proper store in which they can get access to the music they want. Now there are more options available," he said.
SingTel's Mr Cheong said iTunes is "one more option" in a range of music services from which to choose from.
The telco is confident that its AMPed 2.0 music service, which has more than 600,000 users, "will remain a favourite for Singapore music lovers because it is the only service that caters specifically to the tastes of Singaporeans", he said.
Music fan Ryan How, 26, is relieved the store is finally here, as it will save him "inconvenience and trouble" trying to get the United States store cards - the only way then for users here to buy from iTunes.
