Is there a need for an Internet code of conduct?
The question was prompted by Minister for Information, Communications and the Arts Yaacob Ibrahim's recent call on the Internet community to create a code of conduct for responsible online behaviour.
Yesterday , three days after the call was made, a discussion on civility in cyberspace was held behind closed doors.
In attendance was Mr Aubeck Kam, CEO of the Media Development Authority (MDA), who sat shoulder to shoulder with the editors of socio-political websites TR Emeritus (TRE) and The Online Citizen (TOC).
Mr Kam, TRE's Mr Richard Wan and TOC's Mr Kumaran Pillai were among the speakers invited by the Institute of Policy Studies (IPS) to talk about whether there is a need for an Internet code of conduct.
Other speakers included Professor Ang Peng Hwa, director of the Singapore Internet Research Centre. Mr Pillai told The New Paper after the session that it was useful to have the stakeholders, including MDA, participate in such a discussion.
But he said that many of the bloggers invited expressed reservations about the objectives behind having an Internet code of practice and asked whether it was necessary in the current political climate.
Mr Wan also expressed similar concerns.
He said: "We took the opportunity to feedback some of our concerns and reservations to the MDA chief.
"The Internet community has always been regulating itself, and we should leave the sites to regulate themselves as it has always been the case."
Dr Yaacob had made his call for a code of conduct for responsible online behaviour at a dialogue organised by the Singapore Press Club on Monday.
He said that this was one of three ways to achieve the goal of a more balanced and responsible Internet.
Another way to achieve this is for citizens to set up websites that offer constructive viewpoints, as well as for major media companies to help set the right tone online.
The IPS discussion was attended by prominent bloggers such as Mr Andrew Loh of socio-political website Public House and Mr Ravi Philemon, former interim chief editor of TOC, as well as members of the mainstream media.
