The Internet and social media are among several key driving forces of society which can be double-edged swords, said Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean yesterday.
He was speaking at the National Community Engagement Programme dialogue (CEP).
The CEP is a national crisis response network of community, business and youth leaders coordinated by the Ministry of Home Affairs.
Into its seventh year, the annual CEP dialogue saw the participation of 600 community leaders and several ministers including Dr Yaacob Ibrahim, Mr Chan Chun Sing, Mr Tan Chuan Jin and Mr Lim Swee Say. Mr Teo outlined three forces that can allow people to find common ground, while at the same time drive people apart: Technology, globalisation and extremism.
On technology, Mr Teo highlighted how the Internet and social media can help bring people together, but it can also disrupt social order and harmony when used maliciously.
He said that while social media can mobilise active citizens for positive change, the Internet and the anonymity it affords can also embolden people and encourage extreme views.
He said: "Anonymity on the Internet emboldens people, encouraging them to take on more extreme views than they might otherwise.
"The Internet also amplifies the extreme views, even though they might be in the minority, and virtual mobs form to cheer or jeer, which only help to accentuate the differences, polarise and inflame emotions further."
On globalisation, he noted that more Singaporeans now live and work overseas, and maintaining bonds with them is not easy.
In addition, Singapore itself is becoming more cosmopolitan, and one challenge is to ensure new immigrants integrate into society as quickly as possible.
Lastly, international terrorism continues to be a threat worldwide.
Mr Teo noted that extremism thrives on divisiveness, but at the same time, it also helps to rally people together when they unite to reject extremism, as was seen in Singapore during the Jemaah Islamiyah arrests in 2001.
He added that strong community partnerships can help Singapore reduce the opportunities for extremism to take hold of groups or individuals, and to deal with and withstand the divisive effects that violent extremism can wreak on a multi-racial and multi-religious society.
In view of these driving forces that can have a profound impact on Singapore's national solidarity and social cohesion, Mr Teo said the country's community engagement efforts are even more important today and in the future.
