Singtel mio TV on Wednesday offered home subscribers affected by the poor reception of football matches two Sundays ago a month's free subscription to the Sports Pack option.
The response from some subscribers to mio TV: Your sorry didn't cut it, neither does your compensation, which amounts to $34.90.
SingTel mio TV broadcast all 10 English Premier League (EPL) matches on the last day of the season on its channels on May 13.
But the reception deteriorated as the matches progressed and many subscribers had to put up with frozen screens or garbled images.
One of them was photo editor Shahida Ariff, 35, who said: "The $34.90 credit is the bare minimum." She felt it was little compensation for the frustration her family endured as they missed match-winning moments in one of the most exciting EPL season finales.
Among the problems she faced: Repeated frozen frames on screen as the action unfolded on the pitch and no sound during the post-match commentaries.
The freezing worsened as the second half progressed.
Some viewers complained of missing the injury-time goals that decided the title.
SingTel's CEO (Consumer Singapore), Mr Yuen Kuan Moon, sent affected customers an apology letter that was posted on the company's Facebook page yesterday.
Affected customers are likely to receive letters with credit information this week.
SingTel said the $34.90 applies to customers who watched the matches at home that night.
SingTel will handle the compensation of residential subscribers who watched the matches elsewhere on a case-by-case basis.
It will also be in touch with those holding business or commercial accounts separately.
Some fans are unimpressed by the goodwill gesture; instead, they are calling for SingTel to be shown the red card.
Miss Shahida said: "It's clear from the problems encountered over the last two years that SingTel is not technically capable of delivering the EPL.
"I want them to hand match broadcast back to StarHub."
SingTel had earlier said the problem was caused by an unprecedented number of viewers tuning in and repeatedly switching channels.
"The switching volumes were five times higher than the previous peaks.
This surge caused our system to slow and led to viewing problems for some customers," the SingTel Facebook posting said the day after the fiasco.
Subscribers primarily in the Ang Mo Kio, Toa Payoh, Tampines, Bukit Panjang and Central areas were "potentially affected".
Mr Yuen said yesterday SingTel has since enhanced the mio TV switching system.
"We are also refreshing the links between switches to a higher capacity. These measures will ensure that any future peaks in channel switching are managed smoothly."
But it is a problem SingTel should have anticipated, customers fired back.
Said Ms Shahida, a Simei resident: "The problem of so many people switching channels is not an excuse.
EPL is very popular among Singaporeans and will have many subscribers.
"SingTel should have anticipated this and made the necessary arrangements."
Food and beverage director Kelvin Chia agreed: "SingTel should have been prepared for the heavy volume. It's something they should have expected, since they know when there are really big games (on). They should have been ready."
The 29-year-old, who runs Quarubar pub in Franklin Avenue, pays over $1,000 a month for the football channels and hosted about 100 customers for the live coverage that night.
Mr Chia recalled: "Everyone was so angry when the image froze in the 86th minute of the Manchester United game. They were booing when it happened."
Even if he had physically reset the button, it would still have been too late.
"It takes up to four minutes to reset, so the game would have ended by then."
Bank trainer Sofian Sidik, 37, suggested that waiving the subscription during the EPL off-season, from now until August would be a better goodwill gesture.
He said: "Certain things can be pre-empted. At a point when people need SingTel to be at their most reliable, they cocked up."
In the apology letter, Mr Yuen also highlighted how Sports Pack customers can watch La Liga (or Spanish League) football matches live and the upcoming London Olympics at no additional cost.
But traditionally, people can watch the Olympics for free on free-to-air channels like Channel 5, Miss Shahida pointed out.
She added: "I despair at the thought of watching La Liga games on mio. Watching something like the Barcelona vs Real (Madrid) match and having to endure the frozen frames is too much to bear."
When asked if people have cancelled their subscriptions because of the botched EPL broadcast, a SingTel spokesman said: "There has been no change in trend."
She also declined to reveal how many people would be compensated.
Given a choice, Miss Shahida would cancel her mio TV subscription: "If it was just me watching, I would definitely cancel. But I have family members who are bigger fans and will suffer without their football fix."
Mr Chia too, has little choice but to stay the course. "SingTel is the only one showing EPL now. If I want to change, I have to wait."
