Even the boldest experiments in game narrative tell stories in chunks - video cut-scenes, text on loading screens - but Bastion's tale unfolds as you play. Players feel like they are making history with each and every swing of the hammer or shot of the musket.
Seven-person Californian indie developer Supergiant put together an action role-playing game (RPG) that's as charmingly beautiful as it is addictive.
You play The Kid, who wakes up in the middle of ruins to find himself the only apparent survivor of The Calamity that's reduced the floating cities of Caelondia to ruin, and its inhabitants to melancholic pillars of ash.
In the course of his explorations, The Kid discovers that he isn't quite the only survivor - there are three others - and with the help of wise old Rucks, learns how the titular Bastion of hope can bring Caelondia to life again with the help of magical Cores that can activate the refuge's latent power.
Naturally, hordes of enemies lie between The Kid and the Cores. Most, such as the almost-cute squirts, aren't deliberately malicious but are formerly peaceful denizens gone feral, or city defences gone haywire. All are as lethal as the really evil foes. At the Normal difficulty setting, you only get to die thrice before being forced to restart at the beginning of a particular level.
Choose your preferred mix of up-close melee weapons such as knives and ranged weapons such as bows. Everything can be upgraded at the cost of Fragments you can collect from defeated enemies and destroyed objects. Even The Kid himself can be upgraded with various potions he can purchase from the Lost and Found building.
The 2D art - hand-drawn by Supergiant art director Jen Zee - is gorgeous, especially on Windows PCs capable of full high-definition graphics. And the soundtrack by Darren Korb is so good it's no wonder that Supergiant's made it available as a digital download (US$9.99, S$12.69) and CD (US$14.99).
Central to the game is its voiceover narration. With almost every action The Kid performs, Rucks - voiced to grizzled perfection by unknown actor Logan Cunningham - adds a line or two to the story, and puts The Kid's actions in context. Cunningham recorded about 3,000 lines for the game so don't worry about repetition.
Although there are plenty of optional side quests that can indefinitely extend the game, the 10-plus hours of the main story arc are relatively linear, but it never feels that way because the narration always keeps pace with the action.
Flailing around aimlessly with a weapon without advancing further into a city elicits comments such as: "Kid just rages for while". Plunge to your death through one of the many holes that little Caelondia, and Rucks will note that "Kid better watch his step".
Comparisons with Blizzard Entertainment's massively successful action RPG, Diablo III, are inevitable, but Bastion holds its own. The story's better than that of Diablo III, and the gameplay's more innovative.
There's less incentive to replay since there aren't as many weapon permutations to accumulate, and no armour or accessories to speak of, but the ability to fine-tune difficulty levels through the accumulation of Idols helps to keep replays interesting.
The characters are so memorable that someone should start a proper Bastion merchandising franchise. The Kid looks made for a plastic action figure, while the various enemies are as much like stuffed toys as monsters.
A plush Windbag monster would be nice. Don't laugh. Supergiant already sells Bastion T-Shirts, bandanas, limited art prints, sheet music and even ringtones so toys aren't really that big a leap.
Rating: B+
Bastion is available now for Xbox Live Arcade, Windows PCs, Macs and Google's Chrome web browser.
