The two latest cameras in Canon's Ixus line-up come with Wi-Fi and touchscreens.
With Wi-Fi, users can send pictures from the cameras to their iPhones, iPads or iPod touches. A free app, Canon CameraWindow, must first be downloaded, though.
Images stored on the camera can be browsed and displayed via the Apple devices. They can be saved (except for full-HD video), e-mailed or uploaded to Facebook or YouTube.
The maximum number of images that can be sent at one time is 50, and up to 500 images can be displayed on the screen. The maximum length of video that can be sent at any one time is two minutes.
Some may wonder about the fuss of transferring pictures and videos. After all, Apple devices are already equipped with good-quality cameras.
While it is true that Apple devices can do very well on their own, the Canon cameras offer more versatile features and better-quality pictures. So, it makes sense to hook up the gadgets via Wi-Fi.
The Ixus 510 has a 10.1- megapixel sensor, 12x optical zoom and a 28mm lens. The Ixus 240 comes with a 16MP sensor, 5x optical zoom and a 24mm lens. The 510 is slightly smaller but heavier.
Both cameras use micro-SD as storage media, which is probably a first for compact digital cameras.
Both cameras are operated via their touchscreens, so there are no control buttons. This also means that the usability of the cameras is greatly affected by the sensitivity of the screens.
While touchscreens may look cool and enable cameras to shrink further, I still prefer control buttons as they offer a better feel. The more manufacturers try to squeeze functions into a small screen, the more likely it is that our fingers will accidentally trigger unwanted functions.
In the long term, a touchscreen user interface will probably not be as durable as physical controls.
Manufacturers like to make ever-more-compact cameras, but there really is a limit to how far we can reduce the size of gadgets. After all, our hands and fingers certainly aren't getting any smaller.
How much: Ixus 510 ($549), Ixus 240 ($449)
