Friend or foe?
Much ink has been spilt on the role of social media tools such as Facebook and Twitter. Both were vehicles for change in the Arab Spring uprisings which began in late 2010 in the Middle East.
But social media has also been hijacked to harass and to bully, even leading to cases in the US of teenagers committing suicide.
Locally, the Internet has been used for cyber-bullying and spreading malicious rumours.
The double-edged nature of the Internet and social media was highlighted by Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean on Saturday at the annual dialogue for the Community Engagement Programme. DPM Teo had also said in Parliament in March that there are no specific laws protecting people from cyber harassment, bullying and other anti-social acts on the Internet.
But now, three ministries - the Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Law - are reviewing cyber-bullying laws. The review is expected to be completed by the end of the year.
Mr Hri Kumar Nair, chairman of the Government Parliamentary Committee for Law and Home Affairs, said that while it is "fashionable" to talk about self-regulation on the Internet, "there is no evidence that it has or can work".
If we don't expect self-regulation to work in the real world, he said, why do we expect it to work in the cyberworld?
Even more so when people can act anonymously and therefore be less restrained in the cyberworld. He added:"A person who is affected by (an online) post should be entitled to confront the person who wrote and published it."
And that means having access to the writer's identity, and if the post is proven false, to be able to take it down and stop its further publication and be compensated for any loss suffered, he said.
Dr Brian Lee, head of Communication Programme at SIM University's School of Arts and Social Sciences, believes that tough laws will send a strong signal to the Internet community.
He said: "In view of the social and cultural setting of Singapore, it would be a strategic move for the Government to enact the law to regulate the Internet."
Rather than to view regulation negatively, Dr Lee added that "Internet regulation actually helps to maintain a stable media environment (in) which the majority would feel comfortable."
Agreeing, Mr Nair said: "People should be entitled to express views honestly held, but free speech is not the freedom to propagate lies or cause harm to others."
While everyone - from the author of an online post to the reader to the person who is the subject of the post - has rights, these rights will come into conflict from time to time.
Laws are hence necessary to protect rights, arbitrate disputes and ensure fair outcomes, said Mr Nair.
He added: "The goal should ultimately be to promote responsible speech. If done correctly, this would not in any way dilute the principle of free speech on the Internet.
"On the contrary, it would enhance it, as it promotes the Internet as a credible platform for the exchange of information and ideas."
Rather than impose heavy penalties, tech lawyer Bryan Tan, a director of Keystone Law Corporation, said that the focus should be on sharper laws that get to the root of the problem.
A jail term may not be necessary, he said.
The offender can instead be warned, counselled and made to take down the content and apologise. But Dr Lee also pointed out that it is not technically possible to regulate the Internet completely, given its cross-border nature.
Not that this is stopping the UK government from trying.
It is planning to introduce a law that will allow the government's electronic "listening" agency GCHQ to monitor all phone calls, e-mails and Internet use in the UK, including Facebook and Skype.
ledtan@sph.com.sg
