IF YOU'VE always wanted to check out home-grown video games - and play and compete with others for high scores - from the comfort of home, you're in luck.
A new website that will collate information on games made here will be launched next month, the Media Development Authority (MDA) announced yesterday during the Casual Connect Asia game event.
Gamers will also be able to try out many of these home- grown games - including work-in-progress titles - via the site, called the Singapore Game Box Portal (www.singapore gamebox.com).
It is an initiative by MDA and will be maintained by the Games Solution Centre, a game- development resource centre.
On the new portal, players can track how top gamers of the Singapore titles fare via high-score boards, known as leaderboards. They can also give feedback on these games and interact with other players through the site.
There will be write-ups on the games, screenshots and trailers, as well as interviews with the game-makers for some titles.
The Singapore Game Box initiative to promote Singapore games was started in 2009, with a year-long showcase of such games at the E2Max gaming centre in Cathay Cineleisure Orchard.
Many Singapore titles are also listed on the website of Singapore's Cybersports &amp; Online Gaming Association, but the site lacks several features of the Singapore Game Box Portal, such as leaderboards.
One of the aims of the new portal is to raise public awareness of home-grown games. MDA's director for interactive media, games and publishing, Mr Thomas Lim, said game developers can get "early feedback" on their titles, particularly for game prototypes, from gamers through the site.
"We intend to do much more with this Game Box portal, and we are seeking ideas from the industry on what they will need (in) a one-stop portal for all Singapore titles," he said.
For a start, 20 games will be featured on the site at its launch.
These include five titles that were launched recently, or will be released in the coming months. One of them is Dino Ranchers, a game about rearing cute dinosaurs that incorporates educational and charitable elements. It is slated for release in July.
Another title is Autumn Dynasty, a real-time strategy game that uses a touchscreen interface. The game is expected to be launched later this month. The Singapore Game Box Portal will focus on titles by home-grown independent studios and companies.
But Mr Lim added that made-in-Singapore games by big-name developers - such as multinational firms LucasArts and Ubisoft - could be featured on the portal if those companies are keen to do so.
