The country now often faces social hot-button issues due to the mounting pressure of public opinion, and weibo, Chinese for micro blog, has been playing a big role in driving social changes, a report said.
A report analyzing the frequency and content of keyword searches on baidu.com, a leading search engine in China, has classified 349 issues as "hot online topics", up 30 per cent from 2010.
"If you break it down, you'll find almost one incident took place each day on average last year (meaning that) Chinese society has entered an age where hot-button issues are common", said Yu Guoming, a professor at the Beijing-based Renmin University of China, who headed the research.
The research showed issues of most concern to web users were "living standards, public safety and social responsibility", according to the frequency of searches on Baidu.
Social networking, including weibo, the study said, has made such hot-button issues no longer individual cases but interrelated.
"Online topics, after being amplified and connected with related issues, can exert a bigger impact and force the authorities to think twice before making a decision," said Liu Shanying, a researcher with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a government think tank.
Liu said that although Yu's research only included web users, it has a universal meaning in reflecting the demands society as a whole.
Yu's team also concluded that weibo, on which about 20 per cent of the hot-button issues first appeared in 2011, has become a major information source for public opinion.
"Weibo may change China's social ecology and political context in the foreseeable future, force the dominant players to consider the reaction of the public when making a decision, and eventually achieve a balanced social ecology," Yu said.
One example, Yu said, was regulations on school bus safety.
China's first guidelines on school bus safety took effect on Tuesday, following a series of deadly school bus crashes that triggered public anger. Many people aired their concerns and suggestions through weibo.
The rise of weibo, however, can lead to online rumors and "harm social order", authorities have said.
In the latest crackdown on online rumors, authorities have removed more than 210,000 online posts and shut down 42 websites since March, Liu Zhengrong, a senior official with the State Internet Information Office, said at a news briefing on Thursday.
Liu said some netizens cannot distinguish truth from falsehood and the government and websites should "take steps" to help them make that distinction.
China's Internet population has hit 513 million, the largest in the world, according to a China Internet Network Information Center report in January.
