Hunky Singapore-based US actor-DJ-host Bobby Tonelli oozes boyish candour when talking about his arsenal of tech toys.
The 36-year-old Fly Entertainment artiste and reviewer for technology portal Sync-Up.TV confessed unabashedly to The New Paper: "I'm just a geek at heart!
"I've been into technology for about 15 years and I love to stay current, trying out new gadgets all the time."
Tonelli added that his girlfriend, local actress Joanne Peh, is a big tech fan too.
"I introduce her to a lot of gadgets and she loves most of it," he said, adding that Peh had borrowed his Sony Xperia S smartphone because her own smartphone was faulty.
"But sometimes she asks me, why do I need so much tech stuff?"
Tonelli even has the LG Electronics AG-F220 3D clip-on glasses, which according to him is great for enjoying 3-D movies without having to bother with the "clunky" 3-D glasses provided by the cinema.
For his work as a host, Tonelli uses the HTC Flyer, which displays his cue cards in all its seven-inch glossy screen glory.
He said: "Although jotting down stuff with pen and paper is fast and convenient, it can get messy at times.
"That problem is eliminated with the Flyer. Not only is it small and portable, the screen is also very slick, which helps me project a professional image when I'm hosting."
Tonelli finds the Nokia Lumia 800 great because it's very "localised" to Singapore.
He said: "The Lumia has its Global Positioning System navigation attuned to local maps, which means I can just plug it into my car and get free navigation.
"Microsoft really got it right with the Windows Phone OS and its People Hub function, which lays out your contacts, FaceBook, Twitter and other updates in a very simple yet elegant manner."
3Dell XPS 13 Ultrabook with Intel i5 core The 987 DJ is Dell's Singapore ambassador and swears by his XPS 13 Ultrabook.
Along with his Monster Beats Solo with Wireless Bluetooth headphones, he does a lot of his research for his radio show with co-host Rosalyn Lee on his ultra-slim laptop with its 13.3-inch screen.
"With my Ultrabook, I can plug into Wi-Fi anywhere and use it to view videos and other multimedia for work."
He got it last month and uses it to check his messages, Twitter account and e-mail.
Tonelli, who changes his smartphones every two or three months, said: "I'm all about visuals. I absolutely love the big 4.7-inch screen of the One X, it's got great battery life and there's virtually no lag on the Android operating system.
"What's more, the built-in eight megapixel camera is already very good. (The photography app) Instagram helps me capture the mood of certain scenes."
He's also a fan of the Inkwell, Brannan and Sutro filters.
