SINGAPORE - Given a choice between pocketing US$1 million (S$1.26 million) and preventing strangers from freely accessing your personal information online, would you take the money?
Not many people here would do so, it seems.
Three in four said they would turn down the chance of becoming a millionaire to protect their online privacy, found a survey released yesterday.
The result is similar to the findings in Australia, Japan and India.
The Singapore survey was conducted by online security service provider Norton, with 500 people polled in February.
Mr David Freer, vice-president of Norton in Asia-Pacific and Japan, said the results show that people are starting to understand the value of their personal information.
"It is very easy to be defamed or attacked online if that information is out there," he said.
For instance, once cybercrooks have access to a person's e-mail account, they can reset other accounts of the netizen that are linked to that e-mail account.
This is why e-mail account passwords are the "keys to the castle" and are usually worth more than a credit-card number to hackers, said Mr Freer.
The price of credit-card information on the black market ranges from US$0.07 to US$100, but that for data on an e-mail account is US$1-US$18, according to a report by security firm Symantec in 2010.
For 22-year-old full-time national serviceman Wen Chuan De, protecting his personal data is extremely important.
He tweaks the privacy settings on social-media sites to limit the amount of personal information that can be publicly viewed online.
"If you do not protect (your data) online, someone will exploit it," he explained.
Mr Wen does not download mobile apps if he does not know how they will use his data.
"I'm worried that (the app makers) will sell my personal information to other companies, such as call centres," he said.
But Internet users on the other end of the spectrum said that privacy is not a big issue if you watch what you post online.
Marketing executive Jamie Kao, 24, said: "Ultimately, the purpose of social-networking sites is to allow interaction and sharing of information among users."
Ms Kao has not made her Facebook and Twitter accounts private.
However, she disabled options that allow search engines to track her search history, as she does not know what the data will be used for.
"Just by looking at my search history, (people who have access to the data) will not know my reasons for doing the searches. So, they may have a false perception of who I am."
Currently, there are no general data-protection or privacy laws in Singapore, but a Personal Data Protection Bill is slated to be introduced in Parliament in the third quarter of this year.
Lawyers my paper spoke to said that the new legislation, if passed, does not guarantee complete protection.
Keystone Law Corporation director Bryan Tan explained that the average user does not know when his online information is being collected and typically does not read the fine print on how his data will be used.
He added that "it is difficult for the authorities to police all potential infringing activities over the Internet".
Mr Samuel Seow, managing director of media-law firm Samuel Seow Law Corporation, said: "Because of the complaints-based approach (of the proposed legislation), the Internet user is not guaranteed complete protection."
