SEOUL - Consumers will soon be able to enjoy watching high-resolution content on their mobile devices LG Display, the world's second-largest display maker, has developed a new five-inch display panel for smartphones.
The display giant said Monday that it has for the first time in the world developed the small-sized, full high-definition LCD panel using advanced high performance in-plane switching technology.
Measuring the new panel's density at 440 pixels per inch, the company said the image quality shown on smartphones via the hand-sized panels will be equivalent to large-screen TV and computer monitors.
The 7.2 trillion won (S$7.81 billion) market cap LG Display was able to achieve this latest development by upgrading its AH-IPS technology with faster response on touch screens, and clearer colors and images.
This may be slightly larger than the 4.5-inch panel developed in late 2011, but the pixel density of the five-inch is 30 per cent higher than its previous version.
However, consumers will be able to read e-books and watch video on their smartphones at a sharper resolution than on the 4.5-inch.
"Advanced display technology has become a necessary part of mobile devices that nowadays offer various multimedia applications," LG Display CEO Han Sang-beom said.
"The company will continue to unveil new products and exceed market expectations with innovative technology, while actively supporting its customers," he added.
LG Display's five-inch full HD panel will be showcased at the Society for Information Display conference to be held at the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center in the US state of Massachusetts in early June, it said.
The company posted sales of some 6.2 trillion won in the first quarter of this year, up from 5.4 trillion won a year earlier.
It had an operating loss of 178 billion won, from a loss of 239 billion won, while its net loss increased to 129 billion won from a loss of 115 billion in the same period, according to financial statements.
LG Display is 37.9 per cent owned by LG Electronics, the world's second-largest LCD TV maker.
LG had a global market share of 13 per cent in the first quarter of this year, following Samsung Electronics' 17.5 per cent.
