SINGAPORE - Nearly three in five Singaporeans admit to using pirated software, based on survey findings revealed yesterday.
And both males and females were equally likely to do so.
Of the 506 computer users polled, 28 per cent said that they "rarely" use pirated software and 15 per cent said that they "occasionally" use such software - which includes productivity programs, games, and operating systems.
But 8 per cent said that they would "mostly" use pirated software, while 5 per cent would "always" do so.
Still, 38 per cent claimed that they would "never" use pirated software, and 6 per cent said that they "did not know" or refused to answer.
The survey was compiled from February to March by research firm Ipsos and commissioned by the Business Software Alliance (BSA).
In another BSA-commissioned study by research firm IDC, it was found that the piracy rate for Singapore dropped slightly from 34 per cent in 2010 to 33 per cent last year.
Even so, the commercial value of unlicensed software has increased from US$233 million in 2010 to US$255 million (S$318 million) last year.
This was because of the rise in the number of PCs sold, explained the BSA.
In Singapore, there were 1.3 million PCs sold in 2010 and 1.5 million sold last year.
When asked what is the most common way that software is pirated here, Mr Roland Chan, BSA's senior director of marketing in the Asia-Pacific region, said that many people install bought software on more than the stipulated number of PCs it is allowed to be installed in.
The main reason for using pirated software, he said, is that people simply do not want to pay for them.
Under the amended Copyright Act, it is now a criminal offence for companies to wilfully infringe copyrights for a commercial advantage.
First-time offenders can face a fine of up to $20,000 or imprisonment of up to six months, or both.
A $20,000 reward is also given by the BSA for every lead which ends with successful enforcement action.
Although the punishment for pirating software is severe, the BSA found that only 30 per cent of Singaporean respondents said that the "risk of getting caught" is a reason not to pirate software, while 26 per cent said that they would not do so because "piracy is illegal".
But the BSA said that enforcement is not the only way to thwart piracy and it has been encouraging governments to use education campaigns.
