A survey published last week claims that Singaporeans spend more than 100minutes a day on the phone visiting social networking sites, playing games, watching videos or listening to music.
We send technophile Nur Asyqin Mohamed Salleh into the tech-void for a day to see if she can handle being offline. My editors gave me a mission.
Go 24 hours without my mobile phone or accessing the Internet. Their rationale? Wired youngsters would have a hard time without technology and would probably crumble within minutes. Challenge accepted, I promptly replied.
But challenge not so easily overcome, as I found out to my regret last Saturday.
7.45am: I can't go through with the mission without a tender last goodbye. I set my alarm to wake up earlier than usual, so I would have a precious last few moments with my iPhone. With the minutes ticking by, I start scrolling madly through my Twitter feed. I check my e-mails, send out a flood of text messages and spend some time copying names and numbers into a handy notebook. I realise I haven't memorised a phone number since 2004.
7.58am: A friend replies: "You will cave in in a few hours LOL". Another tells me: "when u die of withdrawal, i will pour bubble tea on your grave :'(". Encouraging.
7.59am: Turn off my phone with just a minute to spare. It's like watching my social presence bleep right off the radar - or having my soul crumble into dust. "I FEEL EMPTY INSIDE," I scribble in my notebook. Roll around listlessly... and go back to sleep.
9am: Mother throws open my bedroom door to wake me up. Little brother (he's 17) is lurking outside, waving his iPhone madly and cackling at me with devious intent.
9.45am: Usually blast some obnoxious good-morning-world music on my iPod as I change. Today, spend it warbling off-key to myself. There is a distinct lack of music to cover up my amazing ability at butchering pop songs. Upstairs neighbour stomps around particularly loudly today, as if displeased. Hmm.
10am: At breakfast table, brother nonchalantly paws at his iPhone. "Oh, look, I'm checking Twitter," says Brother from Hell. I gnaw at breakfast and contemplate murder.
10.20am: Rummage through my book shelves, which have been untouched since I was introduced to e-books on my iPhone. Rediscover my love for sniffing old books, like some sort of literary pervert. E-books never smelled this good.
10.45am: Wander out of room to check the day's movie timings in the newspaper. Planned outing with friends yesterday, but being equipped with memory the size of a teaspoon, usually have to note things down in my phone. Realise yet again that, without my lifeline, I am dead to the world right now.
11.10am: I have no way to tell time without my phone. I haven't owned a watch in almost 10 years. Mother passes me father's old watch.
11.15am: Yes, I'm still struggling to strap it on. Feels like a handcuff.
11.20am: Mother - either out of generosity or outright malice - offers to lock my phone up for me. "Nooo," I whimper. "I'll feel naked without it." Despite not being able to use it, I take it along for my outing.
11.35am: Not being able to check bus timings on my phone leaves me stranded at the bus stop for 15 minutes. For this girl, born with absolutely no patience to speak of, the long wait without knowing what to expect is amazingly hard.
11.50am: Finally reach the bus interchange. Thank goodness for the TVs displaying expected times of arrival. I don't need you, phone!
Noon: Or maybe I do. Have been on bus five minutes and am already feeling out of place. What do I look at? What am I supposed to do with my hands, which have evolved over the years into some sort of mobile-gripping claw?
12.10pm: Have taken to people-watching and doodling circles manically in my notebook. Some (the people, not the circles) stare back at me, clearly uncomfortable. A couple (people, not circles) try to move out of my line of sight.
12.30pm: Propelled to dizzying heights of stalkerish behaviour, I start reading the messages of the lady sitting in front of me. She is, by the way, on a date and is wearing a new dress for the first time.
12.45pm: Guy plops down next to me, headphones blaring a potently addictive mix of LMFAO, Ke$ha and... is that One Direction?
1pm: Find myself humming along to the music.
1.10pm: Reach Orchard MRT a little late for a meeting with mates, and feeling extremely insecure. None of my friends are there yet.
1.20pm: Am still waiting, and getting paranoid. What if they stood me up? What if I'm at the wrong entrance? I had spent last night shrieking "MRT, WISMA ENTRANCE" at them - or did I really? Without my phone, I can't communicate with anyone or confirm anything.
1.25pm: Now am just desperate. Every time anyone so much as moves in my direction, my head starts swivelling towards them. Probably look slightly deranged. More than one person backs away.
1.35pm: One friend finally arrives. I fall into her arms, swooning from sheer relief. I'm saved! Now have point of contact with the rest of the world through her phone. The others are late.
2.20pm: We set off for lunch. Have always used my phone to find places to eat. Now, with no phone, we have to physically wander around looking at shops.
3pm: Must. Resist. Temptation. At lunch, the boys have taken to tempting me with their phones. "Wanna touch it?" This is, like, the dirtiest pick-up line EVER right now. 3.15pm: One friend blurts out: "Wah, this person's Facebook account very interesting siah!" I immediately stick my hand out and demand to see it. Seconds later, realise my mistake and retract hand in shame.
4.10pm: Someone whips out her phone to split the bill. It seems I can't do maths without a phone.
4.20pm: We get to the movie theatre but the queue is painfully long and tickets are selling fast. Start to miss the wonders of online booking.
4.25pm: Realise that people were probably more disciplined before. Some mates are still late. I have no clue how I'd be able to coordinate an outing with people coming in at different times without a phone.
7.30pm: At dinner after the movie, I reach into my pocket for my phone before realising I can't use it. This has been happening all day.
9.35pm: Post-dinner dessert. It's so normal for me to hold multiple conversations with different people at the same time over the phone that having just one conversation feels a little odd.
11pm: Wander the streets, trying to decide which bus to take. Usually, I can confirm this either by checking an app or by calling my mother - bus guru extraordinaire. This time, I have no one to rely on but myself and my paltry knowledge of public transport.
11.35pm: Finally board a bus. Horrors of horrors, guy next to me whips out his iPad. It's... so... shiny... Must... resist. Midnight: Have resorted to staring at the window just to catch the reflection of the episode of Criminal Minds he's watching. That doesn't count, right? Okay, fine, I admit I'm getting my dose of technology, albeit second-hand.
12.45am: Finally reach home. With nothing to do, decide to sleep earlier than I've slept in a long, long time. My life has no purpose without technology.
