The long-awaited successor to Canon's prosumer DSLR 600D has arrived.
It is an 18MP camera but the emphasis is not on megapixel count as other brands have come up with recent launches of similar DSLRs with higher megapixel sensors.
Rather, the 650D is a complete re-design of the 600D to yield a camera that takes better pictures, has better controls and features, and is lighter.
Indeed, it has earned boasting rights for having a touchscreen - it is the first DSLR in the world to have this. The capacitive touchscreen enables touch gestures, such as pinching, zooming and swiping.
Some EOS controls are on-screen, allowing settings like shutter speed or aperture to be changed. The touchscreen has an anti-smudge coating which also reduces reflective glare in bright sunlight.
Another significant improvement on the 650D is the wider ISO range from 100 to 12800.
Night photography is made easier with the new Handheld Night Scene mode, which enables night-scene shots to be taken without a tripod.
Four shots are taken consecutively at a fast shutter speed and merged automatically to form a single sharp image.
Video snapshots are also easier to capture with the Video Snapshot editor, a feature previously found only in Canon LEGRIA camcorders.
Billed as an Adventure camera for outdoor use, the D20 is waterproof (up to 10m), freeze-proof (up to minus 10 deg C), shockproof (can survive a drop from a height of 1.5m) and dustproof. If a waterproof case is used, it can go up to 40m underwater. And, as with most outdoor cameras these days, GPS comes standard.
D20 is a rugged and quick to deploy camera, which is what most people look for these days.
While camera phones have become the nemesis of compact digital cameras and curtailed sales, the D20 has a niche of its own, as it has an advantage - it can be used in conditions that a smartphone cannot.
In any case, most compact cameras (unlike more expensive DSLRs) are tossed around by users who would do well to have something which can withstand rough treatment. D20 fits the bill rather well.
650D: $1,149 (Body only); $1,299 (Kit 1: with EF-S 18-55mm lens); $1,699 (Kit 2: with EF-S 18-135mm lens); Body and Kit 1 available at the end of this month. Kit 2 available in the middle of next month.
D20: $599; additional waterproof case costs $309
