More consumers in Singapore are taking to the idea of shopping anytime and anywhere using their smartphones and tablet computers.
And, they are spending much more. Total sales raked up by mobile commerce here skyrocketed to $328 million last year, up from just $43 million in 2010.
The median amount each online shopper spent also jumped more than threefold, from $93 in 2010 to $354 last year.
These were the key findings of an online and mobile-shopping study conducted by market-research firm Nielsen, commissioned by e-commerce payment company PayPal. The study polled about 1,000 Singaporean online shoppers, aged 18 and above.
Said Mr Elias Ghanem, managing director of PayPal South-east Asia and India: "Last year was a blockbuster year for mobile commerce in Singapore, and the phenomenal growth supports our prediction that the e-commerce market will hit $4.4 billion by 2015.
"Consumers now have a store in their pockets...it's a portable point-of-sale for retailers, who clearly need to adapt to the more challenging demands of customers."
A separate Nielsen study found that some 880,792 Singaporeans had made at least one purchase via a mobile device last year, compared to 364,390 the year before.
In the PayPal study, it was revealed that online shoppers here prefer using cellphones to make purchases. Smartphones constituted about 75 per cent of the total mobile-commerce market and rang in $244 million in sales. In contrast, tablets brought in only $82 million.
However, tablet users tend to spend more. The average amount each shopper spent via tablets was $380, higher than the $274 via smartphones.
Accessories and fashion items were the most popular purchases, ringing up $39 million and $24 million via smartphones and tablets, respectively.
And for the first time, more than half of all online spending was on websites based in Singapore. Still, Mr Ghanem said retailers here need to continue to build up their online edge, in view of growing competition from global vendors.
Mr Rahul Shinghal, director for mobile at PayPal for Asia Pacific, noted that merchants must offer consumers an easy and secure mobile-payment experience, to better capture the market.
PayPal yesterday unveiled its PayPal Mobile Payments Standard solution, to help businesses increase sales via mobile devices. With the new service, PayPal detects when customers are using their mobile device during the payment process and redirects them to a mobile-optimised payment page. This is even if the retailer's website is not optimised for mobile devices yet.
Said Mr Shinghal: "(An easy and secure mode of) payment is often the missing link when it comes to transactions... This service facilitates payment in as little as two clicks on smartphones and do not store any sensitive financial details on the mobile devices."
