Rush to your DVD shop right now and get your Game Of Thrones season one box set, because HBO has pulled the episode featuring a prosthetic decapitated head that resembled former President George W Bush.
"We were deeply dismayed to see this and find it unacceptable, disrespectful and in very bad taste. We made this clear to the executive producers of the series who apologised immediately for this careless mistake," HBO said in an updated statement after last week.
"We condemn it in the strongest possible terms and have halted all future shipments of the DVDs, removed it from our digital platforms and will edit the scene for all future airings on any distribution domestic or international."
HBO issued that new statement this week after several online outlets reported that on the season one DVD of the show, creators David Benioff and DB Weiss identified one of the show's many severed heads as belonging to Bush. On the DVD commentary, Benioff said, "The last head on the left is George Bush."
Benioff and Weiss said it wasn't a political statement and they simply had to use whatever prosthetic heads were available. Although they identified the head as Bush's in the DVD, they said that someone only noticed the resemblance after the scene was shot. It appeared in the season finale.
"We use a lot of prosthetic body parts on the show: heads, arms, etc," Benioff and Weiss said. "We can't afford to have these all made from scratch, especially in scenes where we need a lot of them, so we rent them in bulk. After the scene was already shot, someone pointed out that one of the heads looked like George W Bush."
They went on: "In the DVD commentary, we mentioned this, though we should not have. We meant no disrespect to the former President and apologise if anything we said or did suggested otherwise."
"George Bush's head appears in a couple beheading scenes," added Weiss. "It's not a choice, it's not a political statement," explained Benioff. "It's just, we had to use what heads we had around."
Meanwhile, Game Of Thrones has become the most pirated series worldwide. According to a ranking by Torrentfreak.com, each of this season's episodes has been illegally downloaded by an average of 3.9 millions users.
