TAIWAN - The government must step up investing in constructing Taiwan's high-tech infrastructure for cloud computing, a computer industry guru said yesterday.
"Build more Internet networks; build less roads," Acer Chairman J.T. Wang, who also heads the Taipei Computer Association (TCA), was cited by the United Evening News as urging the Taiwan government.
The government should shift its billions of New Taiwan dollars in road construction to set up communications networks, and at the same time identify its targets for cloud computing, Wang told a forum organized by the paper.
Many Taiwan firms are eager to launch cloud computing services, but the government must act as the "locomotive."
The TCA has already devised many cloud computing services such as a mobile police security system and a mobile entertainment system, he said.
He said these cloud computing systems integrate wireless broadband and RFID (radio frequency identification) applications to offer "tangible" services for people.
Once the government steps up its efforts promoting these new services, it will be a "win-win-win" situation benefiting the government, industries and the general public.
Wang, who had just returned from a cloud computing expo in Chongqing, China, said the western Chinese city has gone all out developing for the latest networking trend.
The Acer chairman said the Taiwan government must revise its purchasing policies in order to help local firms develop cloud computing applications.
Government projects should not be awarded only to those offering the lowest quotes, but instead should take into consideration the biggest possible benefits, he said.
Government purchases should be used as a form of incentives and awards for private firms in the cloud computing industry, he said.
James Liu, general manager of SYSCOM Computer, noted that China has been fast catching up with Taiwan in cloud computing development.
Liu, who also heads the Information Service Industry Association of R.O.C., said that in 2007 China's cloud computing development still lagged far behind Taiwan's, but now they are very close.
He noted that China has been actively organizing each and every cloud computing expo.
Taiwan must seize its chance, he said. It must identify its strengths and devise plans for cross-strait collaboration targeting both Asian and global markets, he added.
Minister without Portfolio Simon Chang told the forum that as cloud computing remains a sensitive sector under tight control in China, Taiwan must carefully select the items for cross-strait collaboration.
Chang, who left Google Taiwan for Cabinet, noted that the "electronic invoice" that Taiwan has been promoting is a potential area for cross-strait joint development.
Cloud computing is the inevitable direction for Taiwan's information service industry, but the nation must improve its technology, react fast to market changes, and cultivate its creativity.
