There has been a large increase in the number of cases in which Android smartphone users are asked to pay large bills after installing a virus-infected application that steals their personal information such as phone numbers.
The number of confirmed new viruses targeting smartphones with Google Inc.'s Android operating system increased 150-fold from a year ago. Propelling the surge in the number of new viruses are malicious businesses, which use the personal information of smartphone users for billing fraud or resell the information to others.
This year, local consumer affairs centers received inquiries from many smartphone users who received e-mails such as "Reminder: Please pay 99,800 yen in adult movie registration fees!"
The Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan, an independent administrative organization, examined the cases and found it was because of a movie player application.
The application can be installed for free on Android smartphones.
This application contains a virus, and if smartphone users touch menu buttons on adult sites, their personal information, including phone numbers and e-mail addresses, are suddenly displayed on the screen and that information is sent to someone.
In some cases, a window asking a user to pay repeatedly pops up on the screen although the user attempts to close it.
The Tokyo metropolitan government received 139 inquiries on similar cases between April and September last year. Although financial harm has not been reported yet, some people received phone calls asking them to pay bills. In other cases, people using social networking services were led under the guise of adding friends to a site where they were asked to download a virus-infected application.
According to a private research company, about 58 per cent of smartphones were using the Android OS as of late last year.
According to security software maker Trend Micro Inc., the number of viruses targeting Android smartphones surged to 1,358 in February this year versus nine in February last year.
Some viruses enable a third person to hack smartphone conversations. Other viruses automatically send e-mails and make calls, and users are charged for expensive services. There is also the possibility that users' credit card numbers may be stolen by a virus.
There is an underground market for smartphone users' personal information.
A Trend Micro official said: "A smartphone is 'a lump of personal information'...The risk has been increasing for smartphones to be targeted for abuse or theft of personal information and the resale of that information."
According to another security software maker, Symantec Corp., viruses specifically targeting smartphones started to be confirmed last year. "If nothing is done, viruses will be rampant among smartphones, just like they are among computers," Symantec researcher Joji Hamada said.
Among new viruses targeting smartphones, those aimed at Apple Inc.'s iPhones are rare. This is because applications are distributed solely via Apple's official store and their screening process is strict.
In the case of Androids, however, there are applications provided on sites other than Google's official store. This flexibility has apparently been abused by developers.
As a precaution, users can ensure smartphone safety by only installing applications from the official store.
Also, during the software installation process, an "access permission" window appears on the screen in which users can confirm information to be disclosed to the site they are about to access.
If personal items which are not supposed to be shown, such as phone numbers, appear, it is advisable to cancel the installation.
Installing security software onto smartphones also reduces virus risks.
