BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN - With retailers of pirated DVDs forced to shut their shops this week, many locals have said they will now turn to the online piracy for their fix of the latest movies and music.
Many video, music and software stores were ordered to clear their stock of illegal reproductions by May 21, or face having their license revoked by the Municipal Department.
Businesses in violation of the directive were told to close their doors, although whether the closures are permanent remains to be seen.
Twenty-three-year-old student Haziq Hj Nudin told The Brunei Times that until the authorities' crackdown on Internet piracy, Bruneians will still have access to illegally-distributed material.
"We're a very Internet-savvy population, so it will not be hard for people to adjust to the change. Sure getting rid of physical copies like DVDs and VCDs will help fight piracy in Brunei, but it will just drive up the level of online piracy."
Mei Ling Leong, a frequent customer of DVD stores, added that shutting down the shops will force people to turn to the Internet.
"I do download movies but sometimes I prefer to buy the pirated DVDs because you know which ones are clear copies and which are cinema copies," said the bank teller.
"On the Internet it's kind of a guessing game until you download it, and sometimes E-speed is too slow to download big files. But I guess now I have no other choice."
Another patron of video shops, Asymawi Kefli, said that despite the closure of many of Brunei's video chains, people can still stream or download movies and television shows online.
"They can shut down the DVD shops, but all the same stuff is still available online. It is free, faster and more convenient. And there's no one trying to stop online piracy in Brunei yet."
Even though some are turning to the Internet for free, albeit, illegal copies of films and other material such as games and software, there is still a portion of the population that is willing to pay.
Mohd Izam, a graphics artist in the private sector, said when it comes to watching movies he prefers to purchase Blu-Ray discs.
"I buy Blu-Rays because of quality and extra content that you can't get on pirated DVDs."
"With all these shops closing, it may cause some unhappiness for people at first but they will get used to it," he said.
Izam noted that the public's mentality is slowly changing when it comes to paying for original material. "With the advent of the Playstation 3, where you can't use pirated games in the console, people have to buy original games, especially if they want to play online. If people buy original games, why not movies?"
The 31-year-old added that he hopes the removal of pirated material from stores will create room for a legitimate market for original productions.
"Most people who buy Blu-Rays have to order online or buy it overseas, but if they sell it here then there's no need to order."
Some retailers have also begun to refocus their core business to selling original DVDs in response to the government's anti-piracy drive, and to avoid losing their business licenses.
EGM Trading Company, Brunei's top gaming store, has cleared their catalogue of pirated X-Box and Wii games to make way for legitimate copies.
"We cleared all our non-original stock last month, and our boss is trying to bring in the real Wii and X-Box games. We have been selling original Playstation 3 games all this while though," said Jennifer, a salesperson at EGM's branch at The Mall.
EGM has also started a rental service at all their branches, hiring out one game at $10 per week.
"We find that so far the rental service is not so popular yet because people still prefer to buy the PS3 games, even though they are expensive at $60 to $100," she said.
