A worker's body lies in a lift pit after he plummeted to his death down the shaft.
The photo, which has been on the Internet since last Wednesday, has been attracting a lot of attention.
And the people who uploaded it are hoping that images such as these will serve as visual warning to others.
According to Mr Denver Lim, 25, the photo was taken after the worker fell 12 storeys from the motor room to the lift pit below.
He declined to comment on who took it or where the accident happened.
Mr Lim and Mr James Pinto, 26, are co-founders of Vortics Communications, a company that develops workplace safety and health management systems.
Last December, they started WorksafeSG, a smartphone application for people to upload and share images and postings related to workplace practices.
People can submit photos of workplace safety lapses, or praise workplaces that have good safety practices.
The app can be downloaded for free on both Android and iPhone platforms and there is an online version at www.worksafe.sg.
"It is a little like Stomp (citizen journalism website), except it is focused on safety-related issues," said MrLim.
In the app, there is an "eye opener" section where people can view postings, a "pitch in" section where people can take photos and upload directly into the app, and "heads up", which has all the latest workplace safety-related news.
The response to the app, which is in its early stages, has been quite encouraging - there have been almost 300 likes on its Facebook page.
On the Android platform, there have been 93 downloads so far, with 142 for the Apple iPhone platform.
The content in the app and portal are similar.
There used to be more than 10 articles in the app and on the website, but they were revamped a week ago to tidy things up. Only five articles remain.
The inspiration for this portal came from Mr Pinto's stint in the air force during national service.
Mr Lim explained: "James was doing runway maintenance. The standard of safety was very stringent. When he entered the corporate world, he found that it was not comparable."
They began getting feedback and felt that the standard of safety here is not very high.
"We felt it would be good if there was a community-driven project," said Mr Lim.
"Hence, we decided to create such a portal and leave it up there for the community to share information."
Vortics Communications consists of the two of them, two developers, and a part-time assistant.
The two were classmates at Nanyang Polytechnic (NYP), in an electronics, computer and communications engineering course.
"It doesn't take much time, and every contribution helps. We take some things for granted, but something simple might just save someone's life," he said.
Mr Yeo Guat Kwang, MP for Ang Mo Kio GRC and a member of the Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) Council, applauded the duo's efforts.
He said: "It is great that they have started this out of passion for the topic, and have done it with responsibility and accuracy."
Mr Yeo feels that it is a more convincing message for people.
"It can act as a whistle-blower for lapses in safety, and a reminder to employers to take precautionary actions," he said.
He also said that this truly shows the community spirit of Singaporeans, and that the app's objectives are in line with the WSH Council's.
"We won't end up waiting for the Government to do everything for us."
Mr Zainudin Nordin, MP for Bishan-Toa Payoh GRC and chairman of the Government Parliamentary Committee for Manpower, believes the portal can become a bigger thing if it has the right amount of support.
He said: "Such a growing initiative needs to be supported and proliferated.
"People have to actually use it for it to grow... We have to spread the word."
He said that anything that enhances worker safety awareness is definitely positive.
"Workers must know that beyond official channels, there are always other ways to get information," he said.
