DON'T try to friend Ms MaLi Arwood on Facebook. You won't find her there.
You won't find Mr Thomas Chin either. Nor MsKariann Goldschmitt. Nor Mr Jake Edelstein.
More than 900 million people worldwide check their Facebook accounts at least once a month, but millions more are Facebook holdouts.
They say they don't want Facebook. They insist they don't need Facebook. They say they're living life just fine without the long-forgotten acquaintances that the world's largest social network sometimes resurrects.
"I'm absolutely in touch with everyone in my life that I want to be in touch with," Ms Arwood told AP.
"I don't need to share triviality with someone that I might have known for six months 12 years ago."
Even with people like her, Facebook is one of the biggest business success stories in history. As of March 31, it has 901 million users, according to the company.
The company's shares began trading yesterday the day after it raised US$16 billion (S$20 billion) in an initial public offering that valued the company at US$104 billion.
That's more than Amazon.com, Walt Disney and McDonald's.
But if Facebook is to live up to its hype and reward the investors clamouring for its stock, it needs to convince some of the resisters to join.
Two out of every five American adults have not joined Facebook, according to a recent AP-CNBC poll. Of those not on Facebook, a third cited a lack of interest or need.
If these people continue to shun Facebook, the social network could become akin to a postal system that delivers mail only to houses on one side of the street.
The system isn't as useful and people aren't likely to spend as much time on it. That means fewer opportunities for Facebook to sell advertisements.
Mr Lee Rainie, director of the Pew Internet &amp; American Life Project, said that new communications channels often breed a cadre of holdouts in their early days.
"It's disorienting because people have different relationships with others depending on the media they use," he said.
"But we've been through this before. As each new communications media comes to prominence, there is a period of adoption."
Mr Len Kleinrock, 77, said Facebook is fine for his grandchildren, but it's not for him.
He said: "I don't want more distractions. As it is, I am deluged with e-mail. My friends and colleagues have ready access to me and I don't really want another service that I would feel obliged to check into on a frequent basis."
He said his resistance is generational, but discomfort with technology isn't a factor. After all, he's arguably the world's first Internet user.
The University of California, Los Angeles professor was part of the team that invented the Internet. His lab was where researchers gathered in 1969 to send test data between two bulky computers - the beginnings of the Arpanet network, which morphed into the Internet we know today.
Statistics
Some people don't join the social network because they don't have a computer or Internet access, are concerned about privacy, or generally dislike Facebook.
Those without college education are less likely to be on Facebook, as are those with lower incomes, according to the AP-CNBC poll.
Women who choose to skip Facebook are more likely than men to cite privacy issues, while seniors are more likely than those aged 50 to 64 to cite computer issues.
About three-quarters of seniors are not on Facebook. In contrast, more than half of those under 35 use it every day.
Mr Steve Jones, a University of Illinois at Chicago professor who studies online culture and communications, said many resisters consider Facebook to be too much of a chore.
He said: "We've added social networking to our lives. But we haven't added any hours to our days.
"The decision to be online on Facebook is simultaneously a decision not to be doing something else."
Mr Edelstein has no desire for Facebook and prefers e-mail and postcards.
He said: "I prefer to keep my communications personal and targeted. You're getting a message that's written for you. Clearly someone took the time to sit down to do it."
