Blasting away the enemy in a first-person shooter game often means having to depend on your reflexes and accuracy when shooting.
But in Virtual Battlespace 2, a PC-based virtual simulation training game used by the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) to train its soldiers, those skills alone, however gung-ho you may be, won't be enough.
They may just get you killed.
Teamwork is crucial to staying alive.
And for those taking part in the National Education Gaming Championship, which uses Virtual Battlespace 2, a lack of teamwork would lead to early elimination.
From April 30, 126 teams from 38 schools and tertiary institutions will be taking part in the championship.
This is the second time the competition is being held. The first, which was held in 2010, was won by a team from Nanyang Polytechnic.
The preliminary rounds will take place at three venues, including the Army Open House at the F1 Pit Building.
The finals begin on June 7. The winning team stands to win up to $3,000 in cash.
This year, 18 new schools and tertiary institutions will be taking part.
Virtual Battlespace 2, developed by Australian company Bohemia Interactive Simulations, has been used to train the 3rd Generation Army in the SAF since 2007.
The game features accurate representations of areas like the Murai Urban Training Facility in Lim Chu Kang so that soldiers can rehearse their tactics before going down to the actual sites.
The Ministry of Defence is hoping the competition will allow the youth to learn more about the SAF.
Yesterday, at the E2Max cybercafe at Cathay Cineleisure Orchard, eight teams from Raffles Institution (RI) were carrying out their third and final training sessions.
Secondary 4 student Koo Jian Hui, 16, learnt the hard way about taking on the enemy alone.
He said: "We did try to go 'Rambo' style, but even though we managed to kill many opponents, we failed to capture the target."
During each round, teams will either attack or defend a building.
Teams win by either eliminating the opponent's team or by successfully capturing or defending the building within a time limit.
The teams are now going through training sessions conducted by Rapture Management, an event organisation company that specialises in gaming, to familiarise themselves with the game.
Mr Sidney Tio, 21, the head trainer, said the most common questions asked by the teams included questions on weapon systems.
Students will get to use weapons such as the SAR 21, an assault rifle and UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle), like in an actual SAF platoon.
Teams this year have 10 members each, down from the 19 in the previous year.
RI student, Lim Yi Yong, 16, who acts as his team's platoon sergeant, said this makes it easier to communicate and organise attacks.
But the lack of different weapons due to the fewer numbers per team also makes it more tricky.
Both he and Jian Hui took part in the 2010 competition, where they finished third.
