SINGAPORE - Local spinmeister Aldrin Quek embraces technology.
As one who has been at the forefront of Asia's dance music scene for the past decade and who travels the world to spin his sets, he would need more than a few gadgets while on tour.
The 42-year-old veteran club DJ told The New Paper: "Not only is playing live more convenient (with my gadgets), it's also faster and more precise.
"Over the years, I've progressed from vinyl (records) to CDs, and now a lot of my music is digitised."
This is Quek's most precious possession. It contains all his music - a whopping 182 GB worth, clocking in at over 53days of playing time.
He said: "It's amazing how all my music fits into something that's palm-sized.
"It accept both FireWire and USB 3.0 connections, so all my music is at my fingertips and ready to go at a moment's notice.
"I'll never know if my MacBook will crash - touch wood! - and it's great to have my music backed up and easily accessible."
The gleaming Apple laptop is Quek's weapon of bass destruction, boasting 8GB of 1333 MHz RAM.
He said: "I use the Time Machine backup utility, which is a breeze to use.
"The Faderfox also has its controls mapped to (music software) Traktor Pro on my MacBook, which is wonderful for syncing music.
"I use the Faderfox primarily for smaller places like house parties, because it's more compact and easier to fit in a corner."
This sound card splits the audio output of Quek's music sources to both the audio speakers and to a pair of Sennheiser HD 25-1 II headphones that he regularly uses.
This lets him monitor the beat better, allowing him greater precision when inserting music and audio effects.
He said: "In a four-beat rhythm, my style is to cue in any music or effects at the first beat, and being able to discern each beat clearly is paramount in maintaining accuracy."
Compared with traditional turntables, the Serato Scratch Live SL3 is Quek's usual gadget when spinning at clubs. It lets him make faster and more precise adjustments on the fly.
He said: "I can have up to three decks going simultaneously.
"My preferred setup thus far is to have two decks feeding music from CD decks or my MacBook via USB, and the third deck with an 'a capella' disc (with non-vocal music).
"The Scratch Live (vinyl emulation software) also has an internal effects page where I can input sound effects.
"I've been thinking of springing for the SL4, which has four decks, but three decks is plenty for now."
ggerald@sph.com.sg
