PETALING JAYA, Malaysia - Taxi drivers are not in favour of a website that enables passengers to post reviews of cab services as it can be defamatory to them.
However, the website has won plaudits from the Land Public Transport Commission, which regulates taxi services.
Malaysian Taxi Drivers, Limousine and Car Rental Operators Associa-tion (Petekma) deputy president Syahrir Abdul Aziz said the website, TaxiMonger, did "more bad than good" for the industry.
"I don't think it is good for people to post their comments without any check and balance from taxi operators and relevant authorities. We must be fair to the taxi drivers," he said when contacted yesterday.
He said complaints should be forwarded to the relevant authorities and not be merely aired by individuals to the public at large.
Launched on Feb 13, TaxiMonger allows passengers to book taxis via its website, www.taximonger.com or mobile application.
Passengers can also post feedback on their ride, together with the taxi's number plate.
While some customers praised their taxi driver's efficiency, others criticised drivers for being rude and refusing to use the taxi meter.
In one comment, a passenger wrote: "I asked him (the taxi driver) to make a turn at a traffic light and then he started yelling at me, that I have to tell before (sic). I am pretty sure he referenced something about my mother."
Land Public Transport Commission (SPAD) chairman Tan Sri Syed Hamid Albar, however, lauded the website, saying that the comments posted can help to improve taxi service.
"Gathering public feedback is the best way to see how we can improve public transportation. We do not encourage people to defame others, but there should be a platform to voice out their views," he said.
He said SPAD would look into the reviews posted on TaxiMonger and would take action on significant complaints.
On whether such comments were defamatory, Syed Hamid said: "If it is a bona fide complaint about service, then it should not be defamatory."
Kuala Lumpur and Selangor Indian Taxi Owners and Drivers Association secretary S. Balakrishnan said he welcomed comments from passengers but they must be true and backed with evidence.
"If the passengers claim that taxi drivers overcharged them, they must produce the receipts to prove what they say. People should not complain without basis," he said.
