KUANTAN, Malaysia - Students these days are not called the YouTube generation for nothing.
One day before the RHB-The Star Mighty Minds Pahang state challenge, the lower secondary champions from SMK Alor Akar went on a marathon watching YouTube videos to build up their arsenal on general knowledge.
Team member Muhd Faiz Md Lukman said they watched a lot of videos on science and current affairs.
While the strategy of a YouTube marathon might have worked, Muhd Faiz attributed the team's success to their inherent interest in Science and Maths.
"I was only told of the competition a few days earlier, so I dragged my classmates Ronnakrit Chanmontri and Loo Ting Yi along to join me. Victory was the last thing on our minds when we signed up," he said.
Coming in second was SMK Sultan Abu Bakar while SMK Tok Sera took third place.
Meanwhile, SMK Air Putih clinched first place in the upper secondary category, with SM Sains Tengku Abdullah Raub and MRSM Kuantan taking second and third place respectively.
The SMK Air Putih team members Danny Kok Wei Yang, Low Chen Eng and Ng Jen Wen were surprised with their win as they signed up at the last minute.
"We joined just for fun and to gain some experience. I was surprised when we were announced the winners," said team leader Danny, 17.
The lower secondary students built an ecotourism jungle hideout during the hands-on challenge while the upper secondary students designed a "circle of luck" model.
The Star circulation manager (trade sales and bureaus) Jeffrey Tan and RHB Jalan Air Putih branch manager Mohd Zarni Rozali presented the prizes to the winners.
The champion team won RM5,000 (S$2,053) while the second and third place teams won RM2,000 and RM1,000 respectively. The teams also won book vouchers worth RM300 each.
School prizes of RM2,000, RM1,000, and RM750 were awarded to the top three schools.
The next state challenge will be held in Kota Baru on April 14 and Kota Kinabalu on April 21.
Jointly organised by Star Publications (M) Bhd and RHB Banking Group, the Science, Maths and general knowledge competition will be held in 14 states before all the champions converge in Kuala Lumpur for the National Finals in October.
The upper-secondary winners at the National Challenge will win a trip to the Young Scientist and Technology Exhibition in Ireland, sponsored by Penang Medical College.
