As the leading citizen- journalism website, Stomp uncovers social trends in Singapore, both unsavoury as well as healthy ones.
One worrying trend is the increasing number of people abusing social media by posting inappropriate comments and pictures online.
What is even more appalling is that even people who should know better, such as teachers, are guilty of such acts.
One such teacher is Farouk Mya Aye, who caused an uproar after Stomp carried a story about his offensive tweets.
"Some kids are so slow that you wonder why their parents weren't fined for reproducing them," read one of his posts.
In another tweet, he said: "I wish I can slap all these Primary 1 kids' mouths. It's like an infection, the rate they jabber."
Stomper Janice, who alerted Stomp to the posts, said: "If a teacher with such a terrible attitude is allowed to teach, I wonder what our children will grow up to be."
In response to the Stomp report and follow-up stories by other media outlets, the Ministry of Education has deregistered the 23-year-old relief teacher. He will no longer find a job as a teacher in Singapore.
Janice's sentiments are echoed by parents who are becoming increasingly worried about teachers' behaviour online.
One parent, Stomper Anon, came across pictures of a teacher with different women in clubs, while looking through her daughter's Facebook profile.
"Teachers do need to have a life outside work, but those photos should not be posted publicly for students or parents like me to view," she said.
And it's not just teachers who have drawn flak for making inappropriate online postings.
Stomper Nuttyfarty contributed a story about a man who posted a photo of his tattoo on Facebook - showing the Singapore flag and the Singapore Armed Forces pledge on his back.
Stomper Wafferella said: "It is all right for him to have a tattoo, but why post it online only to get mocked?"
Even uniformed personnel have landed themselves in hot soup for misbehaving online.
Stomper Courierboy was disturbed to see a Facebook picture of two police officers posing with cigarettes, while wearing police T-shirts.
"This will not be good for the reputation of the police force. People really should watch what they post online," he said.
Mr Malbinder Singh, 23, a sales assistant and an avid Stomp reader, feels that young people and adults alike should keep their emotions in check and be more aware of the consequences of what they post on social-networking sites.
"What you post goes up on the Internet. Everyone will be able to view it. So why take the risk of posting insensitive content? Such things should be kept private," he said.
