Always available, always online.
It's no wonder that growing social media obligations are starting to wear down young adults.
A survey of 19-to-26-year-olds in China, Singapore and the US - 300 respondents in each country - showed that more than half of the young adults polled find it time- consuming to keep up with all their social media commitments, reported the Asian Scientist.
And Asian youth are particularly wired - and weary - revealed the survey conducted by marketing communications company JWT Singapore in February.
Those polled admitted that the time they spend on social networking sites has had a negative impact on their job or studies.
Almost half said they feel more stressed by their social media commitments now compared to a year ago, and that managing these commitments has become a chore.
Young adults in Singapore are more inclined to visit social networking sites on the go, compared to those in the US and China.
Unsurprisingly, they also receive the most notifications, with more than half receiving them every few hours.
The response speed to Twitter and Facebook posts is also highest in Singapore.
But Chinese young adults are the most stressed, reported Asian Scientist, citing the survey.
It noted that 68 per cent feel obligated to "like" their friends' photos and updates, 66 per cent find the obligations too time- consuming, and 57 per cent feel more stressed out now than a year before.
JWT Singapore managing director Angus Fraser told Asian Scientist: "Young adults are super-wired, and that's created an ever-present social obligation that's starting to wear them down."
Social networking has found its way into every facet of young adults' lives.
More than 45 per cent of young Singaporeans check their social networking accounts during classes, and 14 per cent of young adults in China do so in meetings.
It has even intruded into private moments.
A significant number of respondents in all three countries said they visit social media sites while on dates (13 per cent), in bed with their partner (11 per cent), and during intimate moments (7 per cent).
More than 40 per cent of respondents said the amount of time they spend on social media has led to conflict with family, friends or significant others.
And it's the working adults who are feeling the brunt of social networking rather than those who are studying.
Employed Chinese social media users are the most stressed.
Fifty-seven per cent of the working respondents said they sometimes feel jealous of other people on social media sites.
And 55 per cent sometimes feel bad about themselves after taking a glimpse of other people's lives through social media.
Yet for many, opting out isn't an option.
The young adults are also careful about how they portray themselves online.
Americans feel that their profiles are most realistic, while Chinese are more likely to use social networking to upgrade their image.
