KUANTAN, Malaysia - Groundwater has always been regarded as one of the best sources of water for domestic use and agriculture.
However, an unpleasant odour and high concentrations of heavy metals have often made it difficult to tap its potential.
A senior lecturer from Universiti Malaysia Pahang (UMP) here, however, has invented a cost-effective filtration system that can filter a high volume of groundwater for agriculture and domestic use.
UMP Centre for Earth Resources Research and Management (CERRM) director Dr Wan Mohd Faizal Wan Ishak said the treatment system was a solution for many agencies and private companies which are facing a problem of sufficient clean water for agriculture.
Dr Wan Faizal, who holds a PhD in Chemical Engineering from Birmingham University, said he had known of such a problem since he was young as his family had used groundwater in their hometown in Pasir Mas, Kelantan.
"It's a common problem in rural areas where untreated groundwater is smelly and has a high concentration of iron," said Dr Wan Faizal, whose PhD was on the removal of heavy metals from water.
He said CERRM had started the full-scale project, costing about RM200,000 (S$81,880), at the Inderapura Permanent Food Production Park near here in December last year, and managed to complete it in March.
His system can reduce the concentration of heavy metals, particularly "ferum" or iron, from 1 part per million (ppm) to only 0.01ppm, which is much lower than the 0.3ppm set by the authorities for treated water.
Dr Wan Faizal said the oxidised sediments were taken out from the tanks before the clean water is filtered using several layers of special media developed by him.
"The filtered water, which is odourless and has low concentration of iron, is then transferred to the structural tanks for the green houses in the park, which through the fertigation technique is used to grow the Golden Langkawi "melons," he said, adding that each tank could store about 22,000 litres of water that could fertigate 130 green houses.
Fertigation is the application of fertilisers, soil amendments, or other water-soluble products through an irrigation system.
Dr Wan Faizal said in the long run, his filtration system provided a cheaper and safer alternative to farmers, especially those who were currently used treated water supplied by the water supply agencies.
