Having two mobile phones, especially for celebrities, isn't an uncommon thing.
MTV SEA VJ Richard Herrera takes it a step further: He has four.
The 32-year-old, who moved to Singapore in December from the Philippines, even used six phones concurrently for around two years.
Technology has changed lives, and not all for the better. Herrera told TheNew Paper: "In the past, we remembered our friends' phone numbers, we called and made plans and we stuck to it. Now, we cancel appointments (on our mobile phones) like it's nothing.
"And when we do meet up, we are on our phones talking to other people."
Nevertheless, Facebook and e-mails have brought him closer to his family and friends in the US and Philippines, he said.
Apart from his four phones, each serving a very specific purpose, Herrera also uses two iPod shuffles and an iPod touch.
Herrera, who got his first mobile phone, a Motorola StarTAC, when he was 16, believes in using his phones until they're broken, or stolen.
He has lost dozens of phones, either by misplacing them or to theft, he said. Once, he lost four in a month in Manila.
"It's such a crushing setback to have your phone stolen. It makes you realise how dependent (on your phone) you are and how worthless you've become," said Herrera.
He's had these two Nokia phones for about four years - one serves as his business phone for his contacts in the Philippines and the other is for his friends there.
"I like them because I can type text messages with just one hand," he said.
"Nokia made some of the best phones I've used. They are durable because I've dropped them a lot and their designs still look nice now."
Herrera bought these smartphones about a year ago, and the Blackberry is his local work phone, which he also uses to communicate with his parents in Ohio.
The iPhone is his private phone here, which he uses to take photos, listen to music and for his social networking. He likes the Bleep Test app, which is a shuttle run test calculating a runner's oxygen consumption and speed.
Herrera is big on music and likes everything from hard rock and pop to techno.
He also uses his iPod touch to watch videos and for its camera function.
"I have a little bit of (every music genre) from my friends' computers and what's good about the iPod shuffles is that you can plug them to any computer, whereas you can only plug your iPhone to one," he said.
"I could use another iPod. I have more music than I have room for and I cannot have enough music players."
