FOR the record, I'm no die-hard Diablo fan. In fact, when the original game came out in 1996, I recall scoffing at it for ripping off another game.
It was eerily reminiscent of 1994's Ultima VIII: Pagan, with a panned-out and isometric view, action role-playing elements and demons aplenty.
But fast forward to Diablo III and the long-running series about vanquishing evil demons has finally won me over.
At its core, the game's monster bashing is very enjoyable and satisfying. However, gamers will have another foe to contend with: The Internet.
While I got the first game many years ago, I didn't play it until recently. Diablo seemed like a hack-and-slash game without a developed plot and characters to engage me.
But I eventually played the game a few weeks ago as Diablo III's launch last Tuesday neared. I was dying to find out why so many grown men were drawn to the series.
My fears were mostly confirmed, except that pointing and clicking at monsters to kill them and collecting the loot they dropped was fairly absorbing.
And after battling my way to Diablo III's final level in a little over 32 hours, I realised this is where the latest game shines.
The third game's action can be fast and furious, especially in later levels when hordes of demons rushed towards my wizard character. Figuring out what arcane-spell combinations worked for me - in concert with frantic mouse clicks and hotkey presses in different situations - was very satisfying.
The experience became more fulfilling when foes dropped rare items that I could use to improve my wizard's abilities.
The game's presentation also added to its appeal. My wizard's spells were flashy and aurally packed a nice punch as they hit home and made demonic nasties keel over. And these battles took place in varied, gorgeous environments set to a beautiful, ambient score.
My wizard was battling evil from atmospheric, well-thought- out fortress dungeons, to a lavish Middle-Eastern inspired palace with towering wind-swept spires. Little touches - such as rolling mists, scurrying rats and murmuring fountains - made even generic caves and underground chambers a treat to visit.
While I really hated the original game's threadbare narrative, the one in the third game is more involved: I actually cared about smiting evil in this game.
Helping to flesh out events and characters are the numerous voiced banter, which is mostly apt and convincing.
Many tweaks were also made to streamline gameplay elements, which means the game is easier for newbies to pick up. For instance, my wizard could teleport from a dungeon back to town in a jiffy - at no cost - eliminating tedious backtracking.
The online multiplayer feature was easy to get into, to relive the game with others. However, the need to be online to play the game in any mode is one of its biggest weaknesses.
I could live with gripes about how troublesome swopping spells on the fly was. But getting booted out of a single-player gaming session when I lost my Internet connection and restarting a level was very unpleasant.
And once, the game's servers were so busy that I couldn't even log in to play.
Which then made me wonder: Can I play the game 10 years later, if I'm feeling nostalgic? In many ways, I felt like I was playing Diablo III: Online, with all the unwanted problems of online games. Fortunately, these Web woes didn't creep up often for me, though I've heard of worse.
Notwithstanding the hoopla, there's enough in the game to like and it's a good update of the original. Now, if I can just beat the game and save the world.
Diablo III is out now in game stores. The standard version is priced at $89.
