Microsoft is counting on friends to make it a hit later this year when it crashes a tablet-computer party at which Apple has been the star since the launch of the iPad.
The United States software colossus turned a draining patent lawsuit with Barnes &amp; Noble into a mutually beneficial alliance that could make Nook digital books a cornerstone of a content "ecosystem" vital to selling Windows 8 tablets.
Microsoft said on Monday that it will make a US$300 million (S$371 million) investment in a new Barnes &amp; Noble subsidiary focusing on the bookseller's digital reading capabilities, including its Nook tablet, and its college businesses.
"It is not a surprise they are making this kind of investment," said Gartner Research analyst Michael Gartenberg.
"Barnes &amp; Noble is probably the best partner for them, and it ensures Windows has a book and magazine service as part of its overall ecosystem."
Tablets powered by Windows 8 software are expected by the end of this year.
Amazon.com Kindles - based on free Google-backed Android operating systems - and Apple iPads have proven that while buyers like slick hardware, they love devouring videos, music, applications, digital books and other "content".
"Sometimes we focus too much on the technology," said Mr Michael Ch erry, an analyst at Directions On Microsoft.
"The success of the tablet isn't going to be because it is running Windows, but because it has the apps people want and a price people want to pay for that kind of device," he continued.
Mr Cherry is certain Microsoft will enter into more alliances to cultivate a rich ecosystem for Windows tablets. Ironically, Microsoft launched tablet software a decade ago, only to see it fail because publishers and readers weren't ready for it, according to analysts.
"Sometimes Microsoft is too early to the party," Mr Cherry said. "Timing is everything."
Windows-based tablets boasting features such as removable keyboards for typing and styluses for touchscreen commands were released in 2002 but didn't catch on. "Once again Microsoft led, but let someone else take it away from them," Mr Gartenberg said. "Microsoft is often early to the party, has the vision, but not the wherewithal to stick with it."
Microsoft typically avoids making its own hardware, preferring to provide software to gadget makers.
Its device flops include Zune players launched to challenge iPods and Kin smartphones geared for the young.
In contrast, Xbox videogame consoles Microsoft fielded to take on Sony PlayStation systems have become a big winner.
"Microsoft has a tendency to get the product right but to be stingy, so you have the Windows phone failure, Zune failure, Kin failure...," said independent analyst Rob Enderle of Silicon Valley. "They invested heavily in Xbox, and it succeeded."
The timing of Microsoft's return to the tablet party is a non-issue since rivals have been unable to overthrow the iPad, according to NPD analyst Stephen Baker. "This is about Microsoft building up an ecosystem more than anything else," Mr Baker said. "This is more Microsoft trying to bring some allies into the battle."
The digital-textbook market was deemed by analysts to be a shrewd place to start because it has yet to be claimed and premium prices charged by Apple for its slick iPads can be daunting to schools and students.
Meanwhile, textbooks are among the strengths of Barnes &amp; Noble, and Microsoft computers have "deep hooks" in education, Mr Enderle said. "Where neither one separately is well positioned, together, they would be better positioned than Apple is," he said. "This gets Nook, Microsoft and Barnes &amp; Noble back in the game."
myp@sph.com.sg
