Text messaging, the simple telecommunications service that turned into a global phenomenon, is under threat from free smartphone services, and operators need to find alternative revenue streams, analysts say.
The Short Message Service, or SMS, started as a way to use spare telecoms capacity but has become a key cash generator for operators, while offering users a way to avoid the expense of voice calls.
But the surge in Internet-enabled smartphones in recent years has led to the rise of free voice, video and text-messaging applications that are threatening to send SMS into oblivion.
According to technology-research firm Ovum, SMS contributed about 57 per cent of non-voice revenues for telecom companies globally in 2009, but this is projected to fall to 47 per cent this year.
Ovum estimates that the rise of alternative messaging services has slashed US$8.7 billion (S$11.1 billion) from the revenues of telecom operators worldwide in 2010 and US$13.9 billion last year.
"In the next few years, SMS will contribute less and less to non-voice revenue for operators," said Ms Neha Dharia, a consumer-telecoms analyst at Ovum.
"Consumers now have the ability to send text messaging through a variety of ways, such as IM (instant messaging), messaging apps, social networks and so on," she said.
"These products offer greater features and are competitively priced or even free. SMS is a more expensive option in certain markets, and the interface is not as user-friendly or intuitive as other messaging products in the market."
The surge in mobile Internet, driven by the explosion in smartphones and tablet computers, was a major topic at the four-day CommunicAsia fair that ended in Singapore last Friday.
Mobile devices are on track to replace conventional computers as the primary means to connect to the Internet, speakers said.
At the same time, apps such as WhatsApp, Viber, Tango and the iPhone's Facetime offer free voice and video calls and message services where there is wireless connection.
