KUALA LUMPUR - It took a 20-year-old astronomy enthusiast a long time to save enough money to buy a telescope.
And Fong Kee Onn did it in time to enable him to witness the Venus transit at the National Planetarium here yesterday.
Fong, who will begin his university studies in September, was with his friends from the Methodist College Kuala Lumpur Stargazer Society to witness the rare planetary event at 8am.
He bought an Orion AstroView 100mm telescope, costing more than RM3,000 (S$1,209), recently.
"The telescope allowed me to watch the Venus transit. I'm ecstatic as it is an important event, historically and scientifically," said Fong.
The transit is a rare planetary event, with the next one taking place 105 years from now.
Yesterday's event was witnessed by more than 1,000 observers at the planetarium.
Another astronomy enthusiast A. Sri Sathis, 15, had been monitoring Venus' movement for a while.
He said seeing this transit was a once a lifetime opportunity.
"It was overwhelming," said Sathis.
The planetarium's scientific research division head, Mohd Fairus Asillam, said the transit was similar to a solar eclipse by the moon and last occurred on June 8, 2004.
He added it would occur again on Dec 11, 2117, and in December, 2125.
Venus transit is when Venus passes directly between the sun and the earth, appearing as a small black disc against the sun's surface.
Transit refers to the closer object looking smaller than the more distant object.
It occurs when the sun, earth and Venus are aligned in a straight line.
The occurrence has great scientific importance as it was once used to estimate the size of the solar system and measure the distance between the sun and the earth.
"It's important for students to witness this great event as it will increase their interest in science and physics," he said.
Besides the planetarium, the National Space Agency (Angkasa) had also set up a few telescopes at the Langkawi Conservatory and in Sandakan, Sabah, to enable the people to witness the event from sunrise until 12.50pm when the transit ended.
