SINGAPORE - When I told my friends that Korean star Kim Hyun Joong had set a local record by high-fiving with 3,000 local fans two weeks ago at his fan meeting/concert here, they were amused.
Note: My friends are not K-pop fans.
Were they impressed? Sure.
But they also wondered whether the picture-perfect singer-actor had recoiled from the unsanitary fact that he had touched the sweat, snot, dirt and maybe even tears of thousands.
He's a star for crying out loud, surely he had to protect himself from germs after all the high-fiving and hand shaking, they argued.
Well, I suppose it would have looked weird if he had whipped out sanitiser to be squirted on his hands after meeting every 10 fans or so.
Or worse, made all the 3,000 fans do that before touching him.
As it turned out, my friends had underestimated Kim, who just smiled and said "thank you" to everyone over an hour and 15 minutes of greeting fans at the Singapore Indoor Stadium.
When fatigue sank in, he massaged his chest and supported himself with his other hand placed firmly on the table.
But not once did he even wipe his hand.
Of course, if he had brought out the works - hand sanitiser, disinfectant spray and germ-busting air ioniser - he would have been slammed for being "scared" of his local fans.
There would have been online comments such as "Kim Hyun Joong thinks Singaporeans are dirty".
But I'm sure there were also many in the audience who wished he had placed more importance on personal hygiene.
After his concert ended, my mother, who was with me, wanted her "up close and personal" time with the Boys Over Flowers idol.
I agreed to accompany her on stage for the mass touch-and-go.
Around 2,000 people had already left their mark on Kim's hand by the time we got our turn.
He gave my mum a huge smile and bowed slightly when he shook her hand, which left her on cloud nine for quite a long time after.
Me? Not so much.
I ended up with a sore eye that refused to go away for a week.
I rubbed my eye on my way home - without washing my hands - and paid the price.
Kudos to Kim for keeping it real. But after an event like this, it would be simple common sense to wash one's hands.
I hope he did.
And I wish I had done so, too.
