KLANG, Malaysia - Local celebrities, corporate figures and personalities from the world of finance and the civil service are taking time off their schedules to raise awareness on the importance of education by spending time as "teachers" themselves.
Actress Lisa Surihani, producer and musician Yusry Abdul Halim and Red FM deejay Jeremy Teo spent an hour teaching Geography, English and Science respectively at SMK Pandamaran Jaya.
The personalities are taking part in the week-long Teach For Malaysia Week, alongside Teach For Malaysia fellows.
Lisa said she had served as a substitute teacher during her days as a university student.
"But this was a very different experience and I have nothing but utmost respect for teachers because it is not an easy job.
"We need to work together to ensure that all children receive a good education," she said after conducting an hour-long Geography lesson with a class of Form One students.
Teo had a first-hand experience of teaching the topic of "matter" during a Science lesson in a Form One class.
"Now I understand why my mother, who works as a primary school teacher, is so tired after work," he said.
Yusry, who was teaching English, shared the importance of mastering English with his class.
Other personalities involved in the Teach For Malaysia Week from yesterday to Friday include Minister in the Prime Minister's Department Datuk Seri Idris Jala, Sunway Group chairman Tan Sri Jeffrey Cheah, comedian Harith Iskander, Miss Universe Malaysia 2011 Deborah Henry, Miss Universe Malaysia 2012 Kimberley Leggett and journalist R. Nadeswaran (Citizen Nades).
Teach For Malaysia board of trustees chairman Tan Sri Dr Jemilah Mahmood said, when announcing the programme on April 4, that the distinguished personalities would not just be advocates, but also bear witness to the talents and potential that children possessed.
She said a total of 38 personalities were taking part in Teach For Malaysia Week.
Teach For Malaysia is a non-profit organisation set up in 2010 by social entrepreneurs Dzameer Dzulkifli and Keeran Sivarajah to address education inequity in the country.
