When it comes to tech advice, 91.3FM DJ Charmaine Yee turns to an unlikely source - her father.
That's despite her "digital renaissance" in January, when she finally hopped on the gadget bandwagon.
The 25-year-old told The New Paper: "My dad goes to all the IT shows in Singapore every year, and he knows way more about tech than I do.
"I'm such a klutz, so I'm really glad he got me transparent covers for my (new) iPad and MacBook Pro."
The 2,048 &times; 1,536 screen and five-megapixel camera "sealed the deal" for her.
She said: "I hesitated over buying the iPad 2 in the past because I wasn't satisfied with the resolution of both the front and rear cameras.
"Having the iPad also ups your 'cool' factor instantly and lends you street cred.
"At the same time, it also gives your an air of professionalism when you're using your iPad (for note cards) while emceeing an event."
Apps on Yee's new iPad include "guy" apps like Top Gear News alongside celebrity gossip portal app PopSugar Mobile, but the one that really stands out is the social media aggregation app Flipboard.
With Flipboard, the self-confessed "social media queen" can effortlessly "flip" through her Facebook and Twitter accounts and Instagram photos in a virtual magazine format. She said: "It's your entire online life in a one-stop destination."
The diehard Apple fan is considering "cheating" on her trusty iPhone 4 with the newly-released Samsung Galaxy S III.
Yee said: "Of course, it's a very big debate, but the S III has a very high-resolution camera, which, again, is very important to me.
"The screen size and resolution of the S III are also much better. I figure if you're going to glue your eyes to a screen for hours, it might as well be a nice screen.
"It's ironic how the cycle of mobile phone sizes has come full circle. We started out with mobile phones the size of a brick, moved to pocket-sized versions and now we're gravitating back to bigger phones."
She said: "I heard so much hype about Diablo III that I couldn't wait to get my hands on the game, and this is (coming) from a girl who normally shuts off when she hears her friends talking about (multi-player games like) World of Warcraft and Counter-Strike."
Her new-found fascination with Diablo III also led her to try a Diablo III-themed beer at last week's Beerfest Asia 2012.
Yee enjoys bidding at the Diablo III auction house (which allows players to spend in-game gold for items), and is ecstatic about the impending launch of a second auction house for Asian players, which allows buying with real-world currency.
"I'd definitely drop some money there, that's for sure," she said excitedly.
