A band like Train have a lot at stake when playing a live show.
After all, it can be said that the American alt-rockers have a career that's on its second lease of life, having gone on a hiatus after their 2006 album - For Me, It's You - tanked, and then coming back in a big way with 2010's Hey, Soul Sister.
This time, the Grammy-winning outfit - in their post-hiatus incarnation comprising singer Pat Monahan, guitarist Jimmy Stafford and drummer Scott Underwood - are intent on making all the right moves.
That much was obvious at their first full-length Singapore show at Marina Bay Sands' Grand Theatre on Sunday night.
The sold-out concert attracted a crowd of 2,000, ranging from kids (Glee-watchers who came to know of Train via the television show's cover of Hey, Soul Sister, perhaps?) to squealing fangirls and couples in their 30s and beyond.
From the show's 8.15pm start with 50 Ways To Say Goodbye (from this year's California 37 album), audience satisfaction seemed to be the top priority of the evening, as far as Monahan, 43, was concerned.
He handed out T-shirts and guitar picks to the more outgoing fans for getting out of their seats to boogie, for instance.
And, when this reporter's overzealous companion made a quick dash from her fourth-row seat towards the stage, she was promptly rewarded for her uncontrollable excitement - with a hug from the man himself.
However, while all this charm may have been well and good, one couldn't help feeling that it all seemed a tad overplanned and gimmicky.
Thankfully, the music more than made up for that. Tight musicianship - the trio were joined by two female backup singers, a bassist, a keyboardist/guitarist and, at some points, a trumpeter - and Monahan's pliable vocals shone throughout.
When they weren't rockin' out to infectious, high-energy numbers like Save Me, San Francisco (2009) and Drive By (2012), the guys were tugging at heartstrings with their more down-tempo numbers.
Ballad Marry Me (2009), for example, was delivered acoustically, in a blissfully understated version that resulted in a goosebump- inducing singalong. Their 2001 smash hit Drops Of Jupiter, of course, also proved a high point.
Indeed, gimmicks or no, the guys showed that they know how to put on a show.
