She's responsible for the moves shown off by many of the babes and hunks in Bollywood.
And renowned dance choreographer Vaibhavi Merchant spills the beans on what it's like to work with some of the biggest names in the industry.
She was in town on Friday to promote her upcoming dance musical, Taj Express, with her sister Shruti Merchant, who produced and directed the show.
Vaibhavi, 37, has choreographed dance numbers for many hit Bollywood films such as Don 2, Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara, Bodyguard, Band Baaja Baaraat, and Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam.
While one might expect diva attitudes from the A-listers, she stressed most of them are actually down-to-earth types.
On the king of Bollywood Amitabh Bachchan - or Big B, as he's affectionately known - she said he is the most humble and becomes like a child when preparing to rehearse and shoot for a song.
She choreographed Big B, his son Abhishek and his daughter-in-law Aishwarya Rai for the famous sultry song Kajra Re from the movie Bunty Aur Babli in 2005.
She told The New Paper: "I would be this madwoman on the set giving instructions and he would be amazed by this energy and want to be a part of us youngsters. He wouldn't act like 'I'm Mr Bachchan and I'm your senior.'"
Vaibhavi also revealed that Big B would not give her any attitude if she had to cut a shot and redo it.
She recalled: "I have said, 'No sir, bohut maza nahi aaya (It wasn't very good).' And he'd readily reshoot it."
She quickly added that working with dancing legends like Madhuri Dixit in the movie Aaja Nachle (Come and Dance) isn't difficult, as they take their craft so seriously that they work very hard at it.
She said: "There would be times when I wouldn't even call for a cut during the dance sequence as I would be so floored by what she has done. I would just keep the cameras rolling to watch her. She also takes my moves and totally makes them her own."
Then, there are some who are such perfectionists that she has to tell them to cut it out.
One example is actor Hrithik Roshan.
She said: "It does drive me up the wall. And sometimes, I just want to tell him, now stop it, it's great, you don't have to work so hard."
But Vaibhavi is well aware that some actors are not so comfortable with dancing on screen.
Talking about the movie Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara (If You Only Live Once), she said she had to coddle and motivate actor Abhay Deol a lot more than his co-stars Farhan Akhtar and Hrithik, who are fantastic dancers.
She choreographed the song Sooraj Ki Baahon Mein in the movie.
Said Vaibhavi: "I had to keep encouraging him and give them moves that suit them, so they also can shine and be a part of the whole choreography. He had already lost a bit of confidence as he had two stalwarts with him. I mean, he is a Deol."
The other Deols, Sunny and Bobby, are not known for their dancing abilities.
"But eventually it all came together and he looked great and comfortable."
But has she ever worked with any true divas?
She said, after a long pause: "I'm the biggest diva. If they don't give me what I want, I shall demand it from them."
She quashed any rumours that actress Katrina Kaif has an attitude problem.
"Not at all, she is very sweet. I mean, we choreographers are in charge of making them look good on screen, they won't give us any attitude."
As for having their musical Taj Express clash with the International Indian Film Academy Awards, which will be held in Singapore on June 9, Shruti, 27, insisted it is not a disadvantage at all.
She said: "We are very excited and not nervous. The entire family - the film fraternity - will be in town and some of them might even attend the show ."
Taj Express tells the story of Vasu, a street-smart thief with a heart of gold who grows up on the brutal streets of Mumbai to become one of the most successful thieves, but his heart still yearns for a simple and settled life.
There will be seven performances, and will see Bollywood stars like Salman Khan and Rani Mukherjee attending its world premiere on June 7.
What: Taj Express
When: June 6-10
Where: Esplanade Theatre
Tickets: World Premiere, June 7 at 8pm: $225, $155, $125, $75 and $55 Evening shows, June 6, 8 and 10 at 8pm: $185, $155, $125, $75 and $55 Matinee, June 8, 9 and 10 at 2pm: $125, $95, $75, $55 and $35
