We all know how make-up can transform a person - which is why the Oscars has a category for best make-up each year.
Then, there are shows like Jerseylicious, which show how out-there a smokey eye can get.
But, now, the art of make-up is all the more accessible, thanks to YouTube beauty gurus, who are all too willing to share their knowledge.
Be amazed by human chameleons Michelle Phan and Promise Phan, who, through the power of make-up, turn themselves into everyone, from Disney princess Jasmine to real-life regal princess Kate Middleton.
Online beauty tutorials are a dime a dozen - there are loads of videos out there made by girls filming themselves, often in their own bedrooms, and teaching viewers how to sport certain looks.
The Phans' channels are a stand-out, featuring Promise, a 22-year-old Nepalese-American lass, and Michelle, 25, who is of Vietnamese descent.
Outlandish metamorphosis is their game. Michelle's Lady Gaga Poker Face tutorial has grossed over 32 million views, while Promise as Angelina Jolie has garnered over 14 million views.
I personally heart the video where Promise morphs into a sweet-looking version of X-men's shape-shifter Mystique. Why? It's a classic case of "life imitating art", I say.
Though their outrageous makeovers are great entertainment, it is their basic how-to's that take the cake for me.
Both make-up gurus are self-taught in the craft - making it more believable for followers and seem more attainable for make-up dummies like me.
What I like about online video tutorials is the freedom to learn at my own pace - pause to try out that lip technique, or rewind to see that face contouring again.
Useful tips include Michelle's pointers to looking good after a flight - filmed up in the air on her plane ride to New York City. For instance, she recommends using powder eyeliner to fix boo-boos made, thanks to air turbulence.
The experienced Michelle is so good that she has turned her hobby into a full-time job. The guru caught the attention of skincare giant Lancome and was recruited as the brand's first official video make-up artist in 2010.
Another make-up enthusiast, Korean American Na Young, is worth a look on her YouTube channel oiseau88.
The doe-eyed beauty presents styles of popular South Korean pop stars in her videos - such as girly singer IU and leggy beauties from Girls' Generation.
It doesn't hurt that the pretty lass bears a resemblance to Girls' Generation's Jessica Jung.
On her YouTube channel, Na Young describes herself as "an ordinary girl who likes to experiment with colours".
Judging from the fame these gurus' lipsticks and blushers has brought them, make-up is certainly no mere girl's play.
