The opening elegiac track of Leonard Cohen's latest album, Old Ideas, quite concisely sums up the record - and the Canadian singer's take on love, healing, life and faith - as a whole.
On Going Home, he addresses himself in the third person from the view of his creator, lamenting in that cavernous baritone: "Going home, without my burden/Going home, behind the curtain/Going home, without the costume that I wore."
In his mind, he is "a lazy bastard, living in a suit", who "wants to write a love song/an anthem of forgiving/a manual for living with defeat".
At 77, the man clearly acknowledges that, well, as is inevitable in life, he has grown old. But defeated, he is not.
His familiar growl seems deeper still, heavier and more languid than before, but is just as persuasive as he presents his songs in his signature wry, barbed style.
Old Ideas, his first collection of new material since 2004's Dear Heather - and coming after he had to declare bankruptcy in 2005 due to his former manager's alleged embezzlement of funds - is a magnum opus of sorts.
His 12th album since his 1967 classic debut, Songs Of Leonard Cohen, is a 10-tracker rooted in blues and gospel, and each song showcases the man's sharp eye on life and dark sense of humour.
The acclaimed Hallelujah singer plucks gently on his guitar as he croons about the kind of lust that drives you up the wall, despite knowing it's all temporary, on Crazy To Love You.
Elsewhere, like on Come Healing and Banjo, lush female vocals ebb and flow around him, adding a lightness and colour to the proceedings.
But there is also a sense of finality to these songs that shows up, sometimes unexpectedly, such as on The Darkness, one of the more up-tempo tunes.
"I've got no future/I know my days are few/The present's not that pleasant/Just a lot of things to do/I thought the past would last me/But the darkness got there too," Cohen drawls.
Is there as poetic, as magnetic, a musician out there as the legendary Leonard Cohen? I dare say not.
Leonard Cohen Old Ideas (Sony) 4/5 stars
