Perched precariously on top of the enormous mediaeval-castle stage set - dubbed "Kingdom of Fame" - that she brought along for her epic Born This Way Tour, Her Alien-ness Lady Gaga surveyed what she had wrought upon her adoring, mesmerised fans at the Singapore Indoor Stadium on Monday, and was suitably pleased and outrageously forthright.
"I have infiltrated your city, and I will overthrow Singapore, one little monster (what she calls her fans) at a time," she proclaimed.
Wait, hang on, these are not the rantings of a mad insurrectionist.
These are the declarations of empowerment from a self-styled performance artist, brazen exhibitionist and provocative iconoclast who advocates freedom of expression for everybody everywhere - and especially for her indomitable, incredible stagecraft.
Somehow you just knew - going into this heady, super-packed racket - that forced controversially out of her Jakarta concert, you were going to witness something so retaliatory and extraordinary from the lady, that it would make even myths seem ordinary.
Surging through about 23 songs in over two hours, she segued into innumerable costume changes of sinful black, virginal white and attention-grabbing red; danced in stepped-up unison with her energetic dancers; and powered her voice past her mega-decibel band.
She showed the event of a pop concert for what it's ultimately supposed to be: A sensational, breathtaking visual spectacle for a gleeful receptacle of 11,000 fans, half of them sardine- jammed into the heated standing-room pit in the middle of the stadium.
Many of her female fans came Gaga-ready in fashion gear, head gear (horns and bunny ears) and tranny gear.
Three years ago, Gaga put up her first show in Singapore - a "really teeny, tiny" promo show, as she called it - in a big tent.
I was there, when the opening synth-pop strains of Just Dance and Poker Face stirred me - an old coot - into convulsions of excitement.
Then, she staged another gig at Fort Canning Park, which wasn't the best place for her musical-extravaganza style.
I was there, too.
This time, in a perfect setting, the queen brought the entire shebang - cabaret, stage musical, circus act, fantasy show, motivational rapture, a live horse, a motorcycle with a piano on it, bikini babes who'd make hardliners faint, and video-projected talking heads (from her "Candy Warhol" phase of absurdist pop art) that went on and on about an alien invasion.
I was blown away.
She teased in swirling, blonde nymphet locks like Stevie Nicks, danced robotically like Grace Jones, and dominated imperiously like Madonna.
Plus, dig this: In her version of The Vagina Monologues, she emerged like a budding creation out of a gigantic female body part to kick off the birth of a new "race within the race of humanity" - a struggle that necessitated Gaga to sing and prance up the castle onstage and fire fake guns.
That alien invasion - sounding as loopy as Tom Cruise's exertion of extraterrestrial mad science - is a benevolent one, though. In Gaga's vision, it requires humankind - Singapore included, she exhorted - to feel free being who they are in the pursuit of happiness: As a man, woman, geek, freak or whatever.
Lady Gaga often claims - as she did in the concert - an affinity to Singapore: "It's hot, but a good kind of sexy- sweaty."
It's a comfortable place where in between amping up the show with highly charged renditions of crowd favourites - Born This Way, Bad Romance, Telephone, Paparazzi, Just Dance and Poker Face - she quieted the crowd with tales of her journey, from being thrown humiliatingly into a dumpster by high-school bullies to her mission of making everybody feel special.
Ending the show with two encore songs - The Edge Of Glory and Marry The Night - the Patron Mistress of Misfits gave a glimpse of her inner being when somebody threw her a cute little doll.
"She's really sweet," Gaga said of the doll. "I would normally chop her head off, but she's not a Barbie."
The crowd whooped up that naughty little bit of anarchy.
