SINGAPORE - Local celebrity Qi Yuwu suffered minor injuries when his car was involved in a six-vehicle collision near Thomson Plaza on Tuesday night.
The 35-year-old was driving home at about 10pm when the accident happened, Lianhe Wanbao reported. His car was the second last of six vehicles involved in the collision.
The impact caused the airbag in Mr Qi's car to be activated, which resulted in him suffering cuts to his face, neck and legs.
It is unclear what car he was driving. Calls to his mobile phone went unanswered yesterday. Mr Qi, who was born in China, is under contract with MediaCorp Studios.
The Singapore permanent resident took home the Best Actor title in last year's Star Awards for playing a roguish lawyer in legal drama The Family Court.
He is in the running for Best Actor for his work in Channel 8 drama C.L.I.F in this year's Star Awards.
The actor, who is also a nominee for Top 10 Most Popular Male Artistes this year, has been in the list of Top 10 Favourite Male Artistes seven times in the past eight years.
The list is decided by public votes.
A police spokesman said they received a call at about 10.40pm, informing them of an accident involving six cars at Upper Thomson Road towards Sembawang Road.
An injured driver, believed to be Mr Qi, was taken to Tan Tock Seng Hospital in an ambulance. Mr Qi was in shock and was bleeding from his injuries.
He was later transferred to Mount Elizabeth Hospital, where he received three stitches from a plastic surgeon for the cuts on his face and lips.
He was in the hospital until 4am.
Mr Qi told Lianhe Wanbao that it was his first time seeing a plastic surgeon, and he was relieved when the doctor told him that the injuries are unlikely to leave a scar.
He said: "Out of a very unfortunate accident, this is the best outcome."
The doctor advised him to avoid eating certain foods which could cause uneven pigmentation on his face.
Mr Qi added that his friends rushed to the hospital when they heard of the accident.
As his family members are in China, he felt comforted by their concern.
Lianhe Wanbao reported that his parents from Guangzhou flew to Singapore as they were so worried when they heard about the accident.
Mr Qi assured them that he was fine.
He had just returned from China where he was filming a drama series and is taking a break at the moment.
Will he recover in time from his injuries to attend the second half of the Star Awards 2012 ceremony this Sunday?
Mr Qi said he is not sure if he will be going.
If he does, freelance make-up artist Julyen Loo has some tips for how to hide his injuries.
Commenting on Mr Qi's pictures, Mr Loo noted the swelling under the eyes and lips, which cosmetics will not be able to hide.
He advised Mr Qi to consult his doctor on how to reduce the swelling quickly with medication.
"He should also ask if make-up products can be used at this point.
"If there is no open wound, airbrushing can reduce the discolouration and redness," said Mr Loo, who has concealed tattoos on models using the same methods.
As for the injury on Mr Qi's neck, a scarf or cravat may be able to cover it without looking too obvious.
As for his hair, a side fringe can help to hide injuries.
Since Mr Qi's hair is short, the hairstylist can use a hair-extension piece for the fringe and change the whole style or image altogether, said Mr Loo.
