LOS ANGELES - Guns N' Roses star Axl Rose will not attend a Rock and Roll Hall of Fame ceremony this weekend to be inducted into the prestigious music pantheon, he said in remarks published Wednesday.
Rose wrote an open letter to The Los Angeles Times' music blog explaining why he is refusing the honor from the Cleveland-based Hall of Fame, which holds its annual ceremony on Saturday.
In the lengthy letter he cited the various line-ups of the hard rock band over the years, saying he did not oppose other ex-members turning up to the Hall of Fame show.
"For the record, I would not begrudge anyone from Guns their accomplishments or recognition for such. Neither I or anyone in my camp has made any requests or demands of the Hall Of Fame. It's their show not mine.
"That said, I won't be attending The Rock And Roll Hall Of Fame Induction 2012 Ceremony and I respectfully decline my induction as a member of Guns N' Roses to the Rock And Roll Hall Of Fame," he said.
Guns N' Roses reigned over the hard rock scene from 1987 to 1993, selling close to 100 million albums with its potent mix of metal and nihilistic punk showcased in epic anthems "Welcome to the Jungle" and "Sweet Child O' Mine."
The band's last album of original material was released in 1994. Rose remains the only original member of the group which was formed in Los Angeles in 1985.
Other former G N'R members - including guitarist Slash, bassist Duff McKagan and drummer Matt Sorum - have joined with ex-Stone Temple Pilots singer Scott Weiland to form the band Velvet Revolver.
The LA Times noted that Slash has spoken in favor of a Guns N' Roses reunion, despite Axl Rose's opposition.
"He hates my guts," Slash told Rolling Stone in April. "It's over a lot of different stuff; I don't even know. There's just no communication between us," he added.
The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame announced its inductees in February, including Guns N' Roses, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, the Beastie Boys and Donovan, among others.
A spokeswoman for the Hall of Fame said: "We are sorry Axl will not be able to accept his induction in person" - but did not immediately respond to Rose's request not be inducted in absentia, either.
"I strongly request that I not be inducted in absentia and please know that no one is authorized nor may anyone be permitted to accept any induction for me or speak on my behalf," he said in his letter.
"Neither former members, label representatives nor the Rock And Roll Hall Of Fame should imply whether directly, indirectly or by omission that I am included in any purported induction of "Guns N' Roses."
