One pint-sized model stole everyone's heart at the second graduation show of Amber Chia Academy (ACA) recently and it's none other than the top model's one-year-old son Ashton Wong.
Accompanied by talented child star Crystal Lee, the toddler looked absolutely adorable and melted the hearts of the 300-strong crowd with his cute antics on the catwalk.
Of course, the graduation show would not be complete without the appearances of Chia herself, the 30-year-old model-turned-founder of the academy, as well as catwalk guru and co-founder Benjamin Toong.
The latter, noted for his ability to parade down the catwalk in high heels, outdid himself this time by striking one after another pose in a pair of 11-inch, heel-less shoes.
A total of 90 graduates received their certificates from Chia at the glamourous event held at 1 Utama Shopping Centre recently.
Set against the atmospheric audio backdrop, the future models strutted their stuff on the catwalk, showcasing pieces from Keith Kee Couture and Konbersasian collection by stylist Swing Chan. Starting with a white collection that befitted the theme of the night, the style on showcase ranged from rich and heavenly to dark and dangerous, while the graduating make-up artists made an impression with their geometric-themed make-up presentations.
Currently there are four academies scattered around Malaysia, namely in Kuala Lumpur (Berjaya Times Square), Petaling Jaya (Jaya One), Malacca and Penang, nurturing the talent of 500 students as we are speaking. Early this year, the team of instructors was strengthened with the additions of makeup artist Jil Yong and photographer Jackal Yew.
Out of 90, there're some graduates who stood out from the rest by clinching various titles at the graduation show. The full list of winners are as below:
Fan Favourite ACA Model: Angeline Yee
Most Promising Makeup Artist (ACA Jaya One): Claudia Cheong
Most Promising Makeup Artist (ACA Malacca): Tey Ching Ee
Most Promising Male Model (ACA Jaya One): Soo Xu Ze and Aven Chop
Most Promising Male Model (ACA Malacca): Wan Sufi bin Mat Saman
Most Promising Female Model (ACA Jaya One): Eileen Chuah &amp; Charmaine Liew
Most Promising Female Model (ACA Malacca): Brenda Pang
