Sometimes I think it would be better to just resign myself to poverty and sit on the couch all day like Beavis and Butt-Head, watching television.
In fact, I could just sit on the couch all day watching Beavis And Butt-Head.
I'd just watch them watching television, and make snide comments about their snide comments, though of course my snide comments wouldn't be even a millionth as funny.
This would be a life worth living.
When I first came to Singapore some 16 years ago, I seem to recall that the show was banned.
The fact that this very belated new season of the beloved 90s-era cartoon, which has been on hiatus for more than a decade, is now showing locally is a pretty solid indication of how much things have loosened up.
Of course, these two idiots are going to turn an entire generation of promising Singapore youngsters into mindless goons, but you have to take the good with the bad.
While a lot of us have foolishly tried to grow up over the years, Beavis and Butt-Head have steadfastly clung to their adolescence.
Even their trademark T-shirts - Metallica for Beavis, AC/DC for Butt-Head - remain the same. You can't kill the Metal.
The show itself, on the other hand, has changed somewhat with the times.
While the pair once whiled away their time mocking Korn and rocking out to Nirvana, they now sit in judgment over MTV staples such as Jersey Shore and 16 And Pregnant.
The "M" in MTV no longer stands for music, but for mortification.
In fairness, they do feature the occasional music video, but unlike in the 90s, I no longer recognise any of the bands.
Who the hell is Deadmau5 and what has he done with Ya Kid K?
B and B's peanut gallery banter remains laugh-out-loud funny.
While watching 16 And Pregnant, Beavis observes that one of the morons on parade should chain his lip rings to his ear rings to hold his mouth shut.
"Then he'd look smart," says Butt-Head.
"Yeah, I'd hire him," says Beavis.
The boys occasionally tear themselves away from the television long enough to have wacky adventures, like the bit where they take over a couple of drones while touring a military base.
They think they're playing video games, but they're actually terrorising innocent Afghans.
I don't recall the show ever getting so political in its original run, but then again, the world wasn't ending back then.
Series creator Mike Judge, who also gave us the live action gems Office Space and Idiocracy, is something of a genius, and those who turn up their nose at his smart-dumb brand of comedy give noses a bad name.
Completely free of the poncey affectations of many professional critics, Beavis and Butt-Head have the integrity of the lowly.
Unlike many smart, high-end artists, Judge doesn't pity his low-class characters and he doesn't patronise them.
He allows them their defiance.
When the show first aired, it was the height of the grunge era and subversion was in the air.
Today, with billion-dollar media corporations pumping out anaemic, toothless pablum, the dark, sniggering musings of Band B are more necessary than ever.
Who else has bothered to point out that Stefan Kendal Gordy, the party boy behind LMFAO, is actually a privileged and well-connected rich kid, that his "of-the-people" pandering is actually a complete sham?
You've been dearly missed, dudes.
Catch new episodes of Beavis And Butt-Head on MTV every Sunday at 10pm.
