Taiwanese host and singer Alien Huang retained his title for "e-awards Most Popular Male Singer" this year at the Singapore Entertainment Awards 2012 (SEA).
Huang was also voted "Most Popular Taiwan TV Actor" and "Most Popular Music Video (MV)" at the regional media showcase, which was held today in Taipei, Taiwan.
The objective of the Singapore Entertainment Awards was to support the Chinese entertainment industry that popularises the use of the Chinese language.
The Awards recognised a spectrum of entertainment ranging from music, movies, TV, radio to concerts. Apart from honouring the best talents in Singapore and Asia, it also helped to promote the local and regional Chinese entertainment scene.
The biggest highlight at the showcase was Tanya Chua and JJ Lin singing together for the first time. Besides singing their own songs, they sang each other's songs.
Tanya's album"???" clinched her the "e-awards Best Female Singer" title, the second time she has won this award. She also bagged the award for "e-awards Best Local Album" for her album, as well as her third award for "e-awards Best Local Music Composition" for writing "???".
JJ Lin, with his album "???", won the "e-awards Best Local Singer". This was the third time he has received this accolade. He was also voted "Most Popular Local Singer".
Hu Xia's popular song "???", which he also sang at the Media Showcase, earned him both the "Radio 100.3 Most Popular Song" and "Radio 100.3 U Chart Song of the year", while Singapore's promising new artiste Cheryl Wee was presented with the "e-awards Dazzling New Comer" trophy.
A total of 32 awards were presented this year; 15 awards from the "Best" award categories judged by professionals, 14 "Most Popular" awards which were determined by public voting and three prestigious "Media" awards recognising outstanding achievement.
Fans from all over Asia eagerly supported their idols who battled for the top awards in the "Most Popular" categories. They could SMS or vote online through the official website www.sgeawards.omy.sg.
An overwhelming 1.13 million online votes were cast during the voting period, many from Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore and even Korea! Over 10,000 SMS votes were also received in Singapore. The winners for the "Most Popular" awards for SEA 2012 were announced on 2 May.
The 15 "Best" awards were judged by a panel of respected professionals in the entertainment and media industry in Singapore and the region. The winners for the "Best" awards were announced on 3 May.
In addition, there were three prestigious "Media" awards this year; namely the Outstanding Achievement Award (Music), Concert of the Year and Artiste of the Year, which were unveiled only today at the media showcase.
The celebration of the Award results this year also took a different format from the post-award celebration concert held in the past. Deserving winners were honoured at an exclusive Media Showcase in Taipei, the first time it was held outside of Singapore. Singapore and Taiwan media representatives were present to cover the event.
Joining in the post-award celebration at the SEA Media Showcase held at Legacy Taipei were some of the hottest names in the Singapore and Asian entertainment industry. They included JJ Lin (Singapore), Tanya Chua (Singapore), Alien Huang (Taiwan) and Hu Xia (China).
Singapore's homegrown pop duo The Freshman presented an exciting performance which comprised a medley of songs by the winners of SEA as well as their latest work, "?????".
Snippets of the Media Showcase will be uploaded on omy.sg and online viewers can catch behind the scenes and highlights of the show starting from 5pm, 21 May 2012.
ASA Holidays, the Award's Official Travel Partner, provided attractive travel deals to allow Singapore fans to fly over to specially support this exclusive Media showcase and catch their idols live in Taipei.
Into its fourth year now, the event was organised by Singapore Press Holdings Ltd (SPH) leading Chinese entertainment media platforms, namely Chinese evening daily newspaper Lianhe Wanbao, Radio 100.3, Chinese entertainment magazine U-Weekly and bilingual online portal omy.sg.
The event was co-organised by My Paper and supported by Lianhe Zaobao and Shin Min Daily News
Visit sgeawards.omy.sg for more details on SEA 2012.
