One A-grade Hollywood couple are living together, but are fending off questions about going their separate ways.
The other A-grade superstar couple are living together and have decided to cement their relationship by getting engaged.
The stories of Will and Jada Pinkett Smith, and Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie, who met on the set of the hit spy caper Mr &amp; Mrs Smith have once again brought into focus Hollywood's obsession with marriage.
Pinkett Smith has spoken out against reports that she and her husband of 15 years, Will Smith, are living in separate homes and heading towards a divorce.
"These rumours are completely untrue," the actress told French magazine Gala.
Asked why the rumours about the couple just won't subside, she exclaimed: "I have no idea! Every year, one celebrity couple is under the microscope. This year, unluckily, it's us."
But she admitted that she spends a lot of time apart from her husband due to work, New York Post reported.
She said: "I travel a lot because of my work, just like Will does. But our lifestyle hasn't changed. Before we had the kids, we were already far away from each other quite often because of separate projects."
Meanwhile, after years of cohabitation, six kids and countless tabloid headlines, Pitt and Jolie made it official.
If you thought the media circus involving the world's most glamorous couple was on overdrive before, just wait.
Now that Brangelina are officially engaged, expect endless speculation about where and when they'll wed, what they'll wear, what their kids' roles will be, and who might get to attend the celebration, AP reported.
"This is really a state wedding," said Mr Stephen Galloway, the executive features editor of The Hollywood Reporter.
"This is America's equivalent to Prince William and Kate Middleton."
He said the Brangelina wedding would be "the media event of the new century".
Pitt's manager confirmed the couple's engagement last Friday after Jolie was spotted wearing a diamond ring on her wedding finger.
Jeweller Robert Procop said he spent a year working with Pitt to design the ring.
"The prominent engagement ring is giving the world a warning," he said. "It says: 'Look out, get ready.'"
Entire magazine issues could be devoted to each star's wedding-day outfits and hairdos.
"Every single designer on the planet will be pursuing Angelina for the dress," Mr Galloway said. Jolie's wedding dress is a career-making outfit for the winning designer.
Mr Galloway added: "This is going to be a map of the inner state of their private life. This is like Kremlinology. You'll be able to read all sorts of things into this wedding."
