SINGAPORE - When they fell in love last October, their relationship was a public affair, with interviews given to local media.
And when budding local actors Edwin Goh, 17, and Jayley Woo, 20, broke up three months later in January, it was again heavily publicised, given how it was reportedly because he was spotted kissing local actress Dawn Yeoh at local club Zouk in December.
On Thursday, the former couple came face to face at the press conference for their Channel U idol drama Jump!, which was filmed when they were still dating.
Despite their less-than-cordial split, the pair sat next to each other on stage and neither was squirming in their seats.
They gamely posed together, almost like the lovebirds they used to be, at the photographers' request.
When asked about the status of their relationship, both told The New Paper they are now "just friends".
Woo, a former The New Paper New Face finalist who just signed a two-year contract with MediaCorp, said they are not angry with each other and have moved on.
She took about a week to get over the break-up.
"I was initially upset, but after that, I realised it's pretty normal for break-ups to happen.
"But because he's a celebrity, it was magnified...
"I realised we couldn't stay as a couple. It's not all his fault. I have insecurity and trust issues with my other ex-boyfriend too," she said.
Woo, who will be acting in local director Chai Yee Wei's new xinyao movie That Girl In Pinafore, added she doesn't regret going public with the relationship, even though there was a bad side to it.
"We had nothing to hide. (If we didn't go public), we couldn't do things like hold hands in public.
"But it meant our break-up was magnified."
Woo said they only started talking to each other recently when they met again to promote Jump!
In the TV series, which premieres on May 16 at 10pm, the two play secondary school students whose lives change after joining the school gymnastic team and taking part in a national Double-Dutch (rope-skipping) competition.
Jump! also stars Jeanette Aw and Zhang Zhenhuan as passionate and kooky teachers spurring their students on.
Goh, who shot to fame with the Channel 8 drama On The Fringe and who is also on a two-year contract with MediaCorp, said in a separate interview that he will probably keep his future relationships under wraps.
He added quietly: "I wasn't the one who wanted to go public with it."
He said he took a few weeks to get over the split.
Besides the break-up and his kiss with Yeoh, that period of time was especially bad for him also because a reader complained to Lianhe Wanbao after seeing him smoke in public.
He is underaged.
Of that period, Goh said: "I felt awful also because I had nothing to do then. I didn't have anything to occupy myself with.
"I was pretty disheartened. I've moved on and I hope everyone will do that too."
He got over that period with advice from people and self-reflection, he said.
He learnt a lesson from it, but didn't want to say what it is.
"Everyone should have their own experience so they can learn it their own way," he said.
"I don't fight in public. I don't kill, litter or set fire to people's homes. Being watched in public is just some of the things I have to sacrifice."
Goh will begin filming the new Channel 8 teen drama Don't Stop Believin' next week. It will also star Ian Fang, Elvin Ng and Felicia Chin.
