The tour's first concert, held at Seoul's Olympic Stadium on April 27, had its age restriction raised from 12to 18 by the Korea Media Rating Board. This made her the fourth USmusician - following Marilyn Manson in 2005 and Jay-Z and 50Cent in 2006 - to have the restriction.
The change was due to the song Just Dance, which was rated "R" by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family last November.
Various groups, such as Alliance for Sound Culture in Sexuality and the Korean Association of Church Communicationwere against the show for promoting homosexuality and mocking religious figures.
Various Catholic leaders had openly condemned the two Gaga concerts in Manila, held at the Mall of Asia Arena last Monday and Tuesday. The level of protest fuelled rumours that the second concert would be cancelled, but these reports proved to befalse.
The pressure that Lady Gaga faced in the Philippine capital saw the singer address the issue during the first concert.
The Philippine Star reported that between songs, the singer announced to the 20,000 fans in the arena: "I'm not an alien, I'm not a woman, I'm not a man, and I'm not a creature of your government, Manila."
Fans were camped outside Rajamangala Stadium for days before Lady Gaga's Thai concert.
However, controversy erupted with her first tweet upon arriving in Thailand on Wednesday.
"I just landed in Bangkok baby!" tweeted Lady Gaga. "Ready for 50,000 screaming Thai monsters. I wanna get lost in a lady market and buy fake Rolex."
According to an AP report, the tweet stirred "nationalist fervour" as people took offence to the latter part of the post.
"She came to our home, but instead of admiring us, she insulted us," said a comment on a popular Thai website, pantip.com.
Even though the show went on in Seoul and Manila, her concert in Indonesia, set for June 3, is still indoubt.
The Islamic Defenders Front has vowed to mobilise 30,000 demonstrators to protest against her performance in Jakarta's Gelora Bung Karno Stadium.
Now, more Islamic organisations have denounced the concert, even as the Jakarta police stuck to its stance to withhold its recommendation for the show, Jakarta Globe reported.
Jakarta police chief inspector General Untung S. Rajab was quoted by Jakarta Globe as saying that his office still refused to recommend the concert to the National Police, which must issue the concert promoter a permit before the show can go on.
Jakarta police spokesman Senior Commander Rikwanto said that his office would send up to 4,000 personnel to secure the concert if the permit was issued.
The National Police have said they will decide early next week whether to issue the permit.
Lady Gaga's Born This Way Ball tour has been dogged by controversy from the very beginning.
