Here is a bright spark for the music industry that has been plagued by piracy woes over the past years - concert ticket sales here hit a record high last year, generating about $68 million in revenue.
That is a $26-million increase compared to concert ticket sales in 2010, when about $42 million was recorded.
The numbers were $38 million for 2009 and $45 million for 2008.
The figures were revealed to my paper last Thursday by the Composers and Authors Society of Singapore (Compass). They were estimated based on its royalty collection for popular concerts, which range from mainstream music concerts to indie ones.
"The growth seems to suggest that consumers still prefer consuming music live, despite the availability and easy accessibility of digital music," said Dr Edmund Lam, chief executive and director of Compass.
Last week, my paper reported that physical and digital music sales here dropped by close to 23 per cent last year, compared to 2010. Music-industry players cited piracy as one reason for this.
While the names of the top money-spinners last year were not available yesterday, concert promoters cited hot acts such as those by Justin Bieber, Taylor Swift and Iron Maiden as some of the top contributors to the bur- geoning concert scene last year.
One reason for the huge jump in concert ticket sales could be that more acts were brought to Singapore, pointed out Mr Michael Hosking, managing director of regional concert organiser Midas Promotions.
And higher ticket prices could have contributed to the rise in numbers too.
"We are seeing more acts at a greater frequency. Ticket prices have also doubled, compared to five years ago," said Mr Hosking.
Noting a higher volume of concerts held in Singapore last year, LAMC Productions director Ross Knudson said Asia, including Singapore, is now on the touring map of many acts, even those with a high profile.
"A lot of artists are seeing Asia as an emerging market, and that trend will continue," said Mr Knudson.
He explained that this is because musicians now have much more direct contact with their fans via social-media websites such as Twitter. These sites have also made the fans in other parts of the world known to the musicians.
While musicians used to decide where to hold a concert based on their record sales, they now "get the vibe" of where their fans are from social media, added Mr Knudson.
Besides Western acts, some concerts that have created a huge stir here last year include those staged by South Korean acts.
For example, tickets for the first concert here by Girls' Generation - a South Korean ensemble made up of nine leggy lasses - sold out within four hours, leading the concert organiser to add a subsequent show.
One concertgoer, 22-year-old national serviceman Kadson Chng, had to queue for five hours to purchase a top- tier $218 ticket.
Said Mr Chng of the concert experience: "It was worth it. I'm not really rich but I didn't feel like I wasted the money and effort."
But despite the numbers, Mr Ken Lim, director of Hype Records, said that caution needs to be exercised when bringing in Korean pop acts.
"At the end of the day, not all Korean pop events are successful," he said.
Another reason for the rising numbers could be Singapore's growing population, said Mr Knudson, pointing to the number of expatriates moving here.
"There definitely has been an increase in the number of people coming in from other countries to catch the concerts here," he added.
Music fan Kevin Lau, a 38-year-old manager, agreed.
He recalled that the band scene was "very small" during the 1980s and 1990s, with a 30- to 40-strong crowd for the average gig.
"Now, you have people flying in for the act," said Mr Lau.
"I have friends from Malaysia who booked air tickets and hotel rooms to catch the Foo Fighters gig here, but it got cancelled."
On the rising sales figures of concerts, Mr Lim said: "Generally, there were a lot of concerts...If there are more concerts, naturally the attendance would go up, but that is not to say that it will be an upward trend because only so many artists can play to a sell-out crowd."
On top of that, Mr Lim pointed out that because there are many players in the industry, promoters are outbidding each other to secure an act.
"It is not a good thing for the industry because once a certain price has been set for an artist, they might not want to come back for less," he explained.
