There are always men who are willing to risk everything for a moment of passion. And that's why movies and plays about politicians caught with their pants down will always find an audience.
So says theatre director David Warwick, who is set to stage the popular British farce Out of Order at the Jubilee Hall Theatre next week.
Interestingly, Warwick does not say the same about women: "Women are far too sensible to get themselves into these convoluted positions requiring lies and deceit to maintain a public reputation," he says.
"In contrast, the shenanigans men perform to avoid detection are the stuff of drama and farce." So much so for standing up for his own team.
Warwick, 64, is an old hand at directing comedies and farces, especially ones written by popular playwright Ray Cooney.
Presented by British Theatre Playhouse, Cooney's Out of Order revolves around a randy junior minister, aptly named Richard Willey, who plans a tryst at a posh hotel with a pretty secretary who works for the opposition.
Naturally, nothing goes as planned - what with his suspicious wife and the nosy hotel manager about. But things take a turn for the worse when Willey finds a mysterious dead body in the closet.
Lunacy ensues.
Out of Order's humour is not unlike the slapstick antics of Monty Python and the raunchy skits of Benny Hill.
Says Warwick: "The toughest job of playing and directing a farce is the sense of pace or urgency which pervades the piece. But you mustn't get so fast that the audience is left behind, or miss the language. The words themselves are simple, but the rhythms of speech are important."
Playing the role of the beleaguered Willey is Robin Kermode, who most recently appeared as future prime minister John Major opposite Meryl Streep's Margaret Thatcher in the acclaimed film The Iron Lady.
Kermode jokes: "I've played the MP Simon Hughes in a BAFTA-winning drama Wall of Silence, and John Major in The Iron Lady. Now, I'm playing junior minister Richard Willey. I think it's only Cabinet Minister from now on!"
He also suggests he may have been stereotyped: "My father was a headmaster and my grandfather was a British ambassador."
Still, the 53-year-old actor is grateful for the chance to work opposite three-time Oscar-winner Streep: "The entire cast fell in love with Meryl. She is talented, hardworking and generous. "Not one person on the set would say any different. She was very funny between takes. We're all thrilled that she won the Oscar."
Out of Order is not the sort of high-minded work that demands your unwavering concentration. With that in mind, the British Theatre Playhouse is setting up a full-service bar outside the theatre before the show and during intervals.
Out of Order will run from April 11 to 15 at the Jubile Hall Theatre, Raffles Hotel. Tickets from $80 available from Sistic. There will be a charity gala performance and dinner on April 11 to benefit The Business Times Budding Artists Fund. Tickets at $385 a person or $3,850 for a table of 10. To book, call the British Theatre Playhouse on 6449-4855 or e-mail info@britishtheatreplayhouse.com
