Some people are simply born to rock 'n' roll.
Where others try hard to achieve that gritty authenticity that exemplifies the genre, some live it, breathe it, and seem like they probably bleed it.
The White Stripes' Jack White and up-and-comers Alabama Shakes are some of those people.
The latter, a quartet hailing from Athens, Alabama, who've gone from obscurity to becoming critics' darlings in the span of about a year, recently joined White - now flying solo after he and Stripes partner Meg White went separate ways last year - for a couple of United States shows.
The reviews were, to put it mildly, glowing. If their respective albums are anything to go by, it's easy to see why.
Take the Shakes' much-feted 11-track debut record, Boys And Girls, which is a lesson in down-home, bluesy roots rock that makes the band sound like seasoned pros.
Never mind that they got together just three years ago, and started out playing prog-rock when they were still in high school.
Robust-voiced 23-year-old singer-guitarist Brittany Howard fronts the outfit, which also includes bassist Zac Cockrell, drummer Steve Johnson and guitarist Heath Fogg.
Howard herself is a revelation - the woman's rich, powerful pipes offer a throwback to the 1960s heyday of those like Janis Joplin, and she belts with a stark honesty that's so rare these days.
Coupled with the tight musicianship of the other members, and the irresistible Americana vibe, songs like You Ain't Alone and Hold On sound old-school and yet relevant. One can't help but revel in the soulful jam session-esque mood that ensues, especially on slinky numbers like Heartbreaker.
It might be a tad early to tell if these guys have staying power, but we'll say this: the buzz they've generated so far is warranted.
As for White, well, he hits all the right notes on his first solo outing, Blunderbuss, which notably comes after his divorce from British model Karen Elson, whom he married in 2005.
The 36-year-old seems to have channelled his emotions into the music, so much so that each of the 13 tunes seems to burst with an unmistakable soul-baring truthfulness.
On lead single Love Interruption, he sings: "I want love to roll me over slowly/Stick a knife inside me/And twist it all around." Ouch.
There's a mysterious fire in these vintage-sounding songs - Sixteen Saltines, with its crunchy guitars and perfectly showcasing that trademark White wail, is a definite stand-out - that draws one in.
In a nutshell, it's unadulterated Jack White. And by all accounts, he is doing just fine on his own.
