One aggravated a painful old injury in his arm. Another strained her back.
Yet another complained she was tired halfway through.
Last Friday, several MediaCorp stars went down to the Jurong East Sports and Recreation Centre to film the new Channel 8 variety show Battle@Water Margin.
Veterans Pan Lingling, Apple Hong and Zheng Geping joined rookies Romeo Tan, Darryl Yong, Kate Pang, Adeline Lim and Yuan Shuai in the water obstacle game show.
They were split into two teams and went against each other for three rounds.
To complete the third round, which is the obstacle course, the challengers have to first go down a water slide and swing across the water to a see-saw using a rope.
Next, they have to dodge two swinging air hammers before going on the monkey bars. After that, they must make their way over the water to get to another see-saw.
The last obstacle is two spinning cylinders.
While younger stars Tan, Yong and Yuan completed the seven-step course quickly and seemingly without breaking into a sweat, the oldies had a bit more trouble.
Zheng, 47, famous for being MediaCorp's sexiest &ldquo;hunkle&rdquo; because of his muscular physique, faltered thrice while trying to complete the course and fell into the water.
He also aggravated an old injury when he was on the monkey bars, but soldiered on to overcome three more obstacles before the pain proved too much.
The actor said he had pulled a ligament in his right arm two months earlier during a workout at the gym.
He injured it again over a week ago during the filming of the Channel 8 drama Joys Of Life.
The usually talkative Zheng was visibly unwell when The New Paper spoke to him on Friday and did not talk much.
&ldquo;The pain was 10 out of 10. It's a pity I couldn't complete the course because it was really fun,&rdquo; he said. The obstacle course was also tough for Pan and Hong.
Halfway through, Pan, 41, grumbled about how tiring it was. Before her hands gave way on the monkey bars, she told the stuntmen in the water: &ldquo;Save me, okay?&rdquo;
Poor Hong, 34, strained her back during her attempt and could not complete the entire course.
Fortunately, four lifeguards, four stuntmen and a two-person medical team were present during filming.
Not that sporty hunks Tan, Yong and Yuan had any need for them, as they completed the course effortlessly. Yong, 27, later told TNP he didn't think he would be able to ace the course.
&ldquo;(Zheng) was the first one to go on the course and he surprisingly didn't do that well. I was stressed. If he couldn't do it, what about me? He's our role model,&rdquo; hesaid.
On the other hand, Tan, 27, attributed his adeptness to the obstacle courses he did during National Service. While everyone was very intense, Pang, 29, was the joker during filming, posing and preening for the cameras after she completed each obstacle.
Pang, who won Best Newcomer at the recent Star Awards, told us she wasn't worried about looking less than gorgeous during the challenges.
&ldquo;That's because I've never tried to protect my image. If I worry too much, I can't play to my fullest,&rdquo; the Taiwanese actress-host said.
About her making faces at the camera, she joked: &ldquo;I thought I would look ugly and very serious when I was doing the obstacles. I didn't want the audience to switch channels.&rdquo;
Pang, who overcame the monkey bars despite her lack of upper body strength, was a formidable opponent, said Tan.
Both were in opposing teams and faced off in the second round where they had to push each other off two floating platforms.
Tan said: &ldquo;I'm supposed to be gentle (with the girls), but I couldn't do it. I went all out when I saw the fire in (Pang's) eyes and I didn't care that she is a girl.
&ldquo;It helps that I know her and that she wouldn't be angry. I know she was game to play and I went along, just as long as I don't touch any sensitive areas.&rdquo;
The 13-episode variety show hosted by Dennis Chew and Kym Ng debuts in June. Other challengers in the episodes include Ian Fang, Edwin Goh, Rebecca Lim and Elvin Ng.
