BEIJING, China - There was no question where the best seat in the house was at Mayday's concert held at the iconic Beijing National Stadium, more popularly known as the Bird's Nest.
It was right there on that seven-sided stage in the middle of the arena, where the five members of the mega-popular Taiwanese rock band performed in a 3&frac12;-hour concert.
But it was not a seat that could have been bought with money.
As Mayday's lead vocalist Ashin, 36, told the audience of some 100,000 screaming fans: "I know that you all took some time to get to the Bird's Nest. Some of you took 20 minutes, some took two hours, some took the train and spent three days.
"Mayday took 13 years to get to the Bird's Nest."
Indeed, it took the quintet more than a decade to reach what is perhaps the pinnacle of their music career.
Guitarist Stone, 35, added: "For us, performing at the Bird's Nest was a dream that we never dreamed of."
After all, for their first performance in Beijing in 2004, they performed to about 100 people at a modestly-sized venue.
Eight years later, Mayday became the first Taiwanese band to perform at the Bird's Nest - and the first to hold two concerts back to back, drawing a total of 200,000 people.
They had initially intended to perform for only one night.
But after the 100,000 tickets for the original show on Monday sold out within hours of their release, an extra performance on Sunday had to be added to meet the demand.
Stone told reporters after the concert: "When I was listening to Ashin's touching words where he spoke about his grandmother, I thought about how everyone in Mayday sacrificed a lot of family time.
"But to be able to stand on this stage (at the Bird's Nest), it was all worth it.
"I believe all their family (members) would understand this. Today, Ashin and (drummer) Guan You's families are here to witness our performance, I believe they are similarly moved."
Ashin had earlier shared during the concert how he had been in Beijing on a promotional tour with the band in 2008 when he received news that his paternal grandmother had died.
He called his grandfather to ask if he should return to Taiwan immediately, but his grandfather told him to stay put and finish what he had to do.
His grandfather also told him that his grandmother would understand.
After sharing his story, Ashin launched into a moving rendition of their Hokkien number Fool, dedicated to his grandmother.
From their vantage point, the band was treated to a plethora of moving performances from the ardent fans.
Not only did the crowd obediently wave their blue light sticks in unison to every beat of about 40 songs without any prompting, they gave their idols a standing ovation throughout most of the night, with many in the audience clambering to stand on their seats for a better view.
Then, there was also the surround sound that rang out across the stadium built for the 2008 Beijing Olympics as the audience sang along with Ashin.
With nary a cue, they promptly flashed their colourful double-sided placards when it came time for them to do so during the track Stubborn.
The placards formed a rainbow that spanned the stadium during the first half of the song, and when it was flipped over for the second half, it formed the words "Beijing" and "Mayday".
The fans then followed up several songs later with a magnificent light show that created the effect of a shimmering sea of blue and white stars.
They did it by switching on their mobile-phone flash lights and waving their blue light sticks as the stadium's lights dimmed to the song Contentment.
Speaking to reporters after the concert, guitarist Monster, 35, said one of the most poignant moments involved the placards.
He said: "We were pretty astounded. It took a lot of people working around the clock for the formation to happen. When the formation succeeded, we were very touched and we felt goosebumps."
Such a spectacle was not something that Mayday had expected when they released their first album in 1999.
Performing at the Bird's Nest was so surreal for the five guys that at Sunday's concert, Ashin took off his shoes and socks at the end and stood barefoot on stage just so that he could be sure it was not just a dream.
He said: "I still feel everything is like a dream so I wanted to see if this would feel more real if I had my feet on the ground."
Several of Mayday's Singapore fans made their pilgrimage to the Bird's Nest.
One of them, Ms Eileen Tan, 32, who works in regional sales, told The New Paper that the Mayday Beijing concert was a monumental event and she also wanted to plan a 10-day vacation.
She said: "I was very tempted to see what it would be like to have 100,000 fans singing along to my favourite songs with my favourite band."
She attended Mayday's concerts on both days, spending a total of 1,110 yuan (S$220) for the tickets on the second storey, which offered a "spectacular view" of the stadium.
A Mayday fan since 1999, she has been to Mayday concerts in Malaysia, Taiwan, Hong Kong, US, Canada and Australia.
Of the Bird's Nest performances, Ms Tan said: "It was a very surreal experience to be sitting among 100,000 people, all from different cities, all singing along to Mayday's songs, urging us to be brave and to pursue our dreams."
