When he was a contestant on American Idol, Adam Lambert was known for pushing the envelope, for not being afraid to display his flamboyance and, more than anything else, for that awe-inspiring set of pipes.
But one couldn't shake the feeling that the guy was still holding back just a little, and that he had been forced to keep things PG, in line with the family-friendliness of the show.
Despite losing to the eventual winner - boy-next-door Kris Allen - in 2009, Lambert has truly managed to showcase his glam-rock aspirations. His debut, For Your Entertainment, dripped sass and intriguing musical sensibility, spawning hits like Whataya Want From Me.
Now, on his second album, Trespassing, he's gone further in terms of glitz and glamour; who would have thought that was even possible? Each song is an electro-driven, dance-floor- ready, make-no-apologies anthem.
Clearly, the term "less is more" does not exist for the 30-year-old, which doesn't necessarily work against him.
On Trespassing, Grammy- nominated Lambert recruited several big names, including the likes of Pharrell Williams and Dr Luke, to help produce, so potential radio hits are a-plenty.
There's the techno-fied Cuckoo (which this reviewer can already imagine the kids getting down 'n' dirty to at Zirca), for example.
And on Kickin' In, the Indiana native affects an almost Prince-like falsetto over a melody that groovily recalls 1980s Michael Jackson. Very catchy.
Throughout, the openly gay singer, who endearingly defends the hot-button issue of gay marriage on Outlaws Of Love, sounds absolutely fabulous.
He switches from goosebump-inducing rock-operatic vocals to a more restrained register like it's a piece of cake for him. No wonder legendary rock band Queen have selected him as a vocalist for several of their tour dates later this year.
Admittedly, the 15-tracker runs a little long, with the more ballad-skewed numbers, such as Underneath, sounding a little dated and samey.
Still, the man must be given credit for staying true to his personality.
The music might not be what the producers, or some of the viewers, of American Idol imagined, but more power to him, I say.
Work it, Glambert.
