MALAYSIA - Surely, being on one reality TV singing show takes enough of a toll on your confidence for you to avoid another one in your lifetime?
Apparently not.
About half of the 15 contestants on the new Malay series Mania have been on shows like Akademi Fantasia (Hafiz, Akim, Adira) and One In A Million (Shila Amzah).
But that doesn't mean Mania will be a walk in the park for them, said Jaclyn Victor, the first Malaysian Idol winner and singing superstar in her own right.
Mania is telecast live on Astro Ria (SingTel mio TV Ch 34) on Saturdays at 9pm over 10 weeks.
Victor's first reaction when she was approached to join the show last year was: "Ummm... no."
Was it because she didn't want to be put under intense weekly scrutiny again?
"I thought I was done with that," she told TheNew Paper over the phone from her home in Kuala Lumpur.
"I knew people would say, 'Jac is too established an artist to do something like this'. But there's a lot of good that will come out of this," said Victor.
"You have to keep challenging yourself as an artist."
That's a sentiment shared by Mania mentor and producer Aubrey Suwito, who told The New Paper via e-mail that he thought the show was a great way to push artists to explore new territory.
"Everybody is on a musical journey. Artists like Madonna and the late Michael Jackson kept pushing the envelope. That's why they have had such long-lasting careers," he said.
"Even Cher reinvented herself, moving into dance music all of a sudden.
"Mania seems to be a platform where our local established artists can take it to another level, and hopefully, surprise their fans even more."
While Victor takes that to heart, she admitted she was scratching her head over how, as one of the older contestants on the show at 34, she would be fighting against the younger singers who are constantly on Twitter and Facebook talking to their fans.
"It's going to be 100 per cent SMS votes. I won't say I'm lazy, but talking to fans online doesn't occupy a huge part of my time.
"For me, my philosophy is, if you like me, then please vote for me," she said.
In her own words, she has been in the industry so long - eight years singing in clubs before her Idol experience in 2004 and eight years since then - she feels her Mania competitors are like "babies".
But don't get her wrong. That doesn't mean she thinks she has the RM500,000 (S$205,000) grand prize locked up.
"Oh, I'm all prepared to lose," she said. "I've already thought about that possibility.
"With this kind of show, it's always a challenge. What defines the best singer? The best style of singing is so subjective."
Mania is hosted by Malaysian comedian and radio host Aznil Haji Nawawi.
Indonesian rocker and producer Ahmad Dhani, veteran singer Datuk M Nasir and music producer Aubrey Suwito take on mentorship duties on the show.
They get to form their own "empires" - green, red and blue respectively - of five singers whom they picked in the earlier rounds of the show.
After the producers get their pick, the singers work on songs with them, eventually performing it live on the show on Saturday, and then await judgment by viewers' SMS votes.
For contestants like Hafiz, 22, the winner of the seventh season of Akademi Fantasia, the show is a great platform to further his nascent career.
In the three years since his win, Hafiz, whose full name is Mohd Hafiz Mohd Suip, has swept key awards at the prestigious Anugerah Juara Lagu and Anugerah Planet Muzik, including Best Song (Malaysia) and Best Song overall for the latter.
"I don't feel too pressured about the competition on the show," he said over the phone from Kuala Lumpur.
"I'm quite excited about getting to work with the mentors and finding out how much more I can improve."
Unlike Victor, Hafiz will be gamely tweeting and Facebook-sharing his way to a hopeful win.
But the natural question for Victor is: At this stage of her career, does she even need the show?
She said: "I've had my share of screaming fans. I know I can sing.
"But on a scale of one to 10 for popularity, I think I'm below a five."
Her pride is constantly being tempered by mixed reviews of her performances.
"Some people say I don't kill it enough, some people say I go overboard," she said.
"I know I can't please everyone, so I'm learning not to care too much. I want to focus on what makes me feel good."
To that end, Mania may become a platform for Victor to experiment musically.
In tonight's episode, for example, she performs a song that wouldn't normally be associated with a big ol' voice like hers - singer-songwriter Yuna's recent hit Terukir Di Bintang.
"The song is a simple song, I could 'crazify' it, but I don't want to," she said.
"Yuna is doing so well in the US. This is my way of showing support for her."
The experimenting with Mania comes in the midst of Victor's new path with new management company KRU Studios, which she joined two months ago.
She recently released the new single Sebelah Jiwaku, an uptempo pop song that moves her away from the big ballads she has been associated with since her hit Idol single, Gemilang.
Victor is keen on exploring new territory and has recently been trying her hand at songwriting.
"Sure, it'll open a new can of worms, with people asking me 'Eww, Jac, why did you write a song like this?' but I just want to try it out," she said.
"I think there's so much more that I can still do. I feel like I haven't quenched my thirst yet."
