K-pop artists will showcase their music and performances at an international music festival that kicks off in Singapore this week.
Supported by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism and its affiliate Korea Creative Content Agency, eight groups of K-pop stars will perform at the Ritz-Carlton Millenia Hotel in Clarke Quay, Singapore, on May 24.
The list of artists includes Tiger JK, Yoon Mi-rae, Bizzy, M.I.B, BtoB, Clazzi and Rhythm King.
During "K-pop Night Out at Music Matters Live 2012," Tiger JK, Yoon Mi-rae, Bizzy, M.I.B will bring hip-hop while Rhythm King teams up with R&amp;B singer Bumkey to present urban soul music.
Clazzi, one of the three-member project group Clazziquai, will collaborate with singer Lee Seung-yul at the opening stage of the festival on May 24 along with other international artists. Boy band BtoB also makes its international debut through the festival.
Music Matters, founded in 2006 in Hong Kong, introduces emerging and established artists around the world.
It also holds conferences attended by global promoters, record companies, media and industry experts.
This year's conference programs include a session on K-pop's past and present with Rob Schwartz, editor in chief of Billboard Japan, Rasmig Hovaghimian, CEO of Viki.com, Kim Byung-chan, president of Flexus Music, Bernie Cho, president of DFSB Kollective and Korean hip-hop artist Tiger JK on the panel.
Troy Carter, CEO of Atom Factor and manager of Lady Gaga, and Bob Ezrin, an acclaimed producer for Alice Cooper and Pink Floyd, will also join the festival as keynote speakers, officials said.
K-pop artists have been making inroads through Music Matters in Singapore, partly supported by the Korean government. The Culture Ministry and KOCCA have been supporting Korean artists performing in music markets around the world, including South by Southwest in the United States and MIDEM in France. Last year, rock band Crying Nut and R&amp;B group AZIATIX participated in Music Matters in Singapore.
