How does one even begin to pay homage to a musical icon such as Bob Dylan?
Indeed, the pressure of living up to the man's expectations, may be too much for some. After all, he has over five decades of highly-influential music-making under his belt, besides being known as a poet and outspoken pundit on civil rights and other issues.
Kudos then to the 80 or so artists across generations who have come together to cover an array of the 71-year-old American's tunes on Chimes Of Freedom.
The massive four-disc, 73-song tribute was released earlier this year in honour of the 50th anniversary of Amnesty International, and features industry rookies and old hands alike.
Predictably, the results are mixed. Who could perform those songs better than the legend himself, really?
Still, the musicians do give his songs a fair shake, although some renditions are more commendable than others.
There's British songstress Adele, whose raw, emotion-filled take on Make You Feel My Love (from Dylan's 1997 Time Out Of Mind album, and which also featured on the lass' 2008 debut, 19) feels relevant, authentic and very much her own.
Similarly, Malaysian songstress Zee Avi serves up a haunting, stripped-down version of Tomorrow Is A Long Time (1971).
And, among the more unexpected singers who have given it a go are ingenues such as actress-singer Miley Cyrus and Tik Tok singer Kesha.
Though Cyrus is surprisingly convincing on the country-tinged You're Gonna Make Me Lonesome When You Go (1975), Kesha's rendition of Don't Think Twice, It's All Right (1963) seems a little contrived.
On the other end of the spectrum, more experienced musicians like Sting, Joan Baez and, in particular, Sinead O'Connor, explore Dylan's works with the touch of true veterans.
O'Connor - always one for artistic integrity, of course - belts out Property Of Jesus (1981) extremely compellingly.
Overall, there are hits and misses.
But we're pretty sure Mr Dylan would give this diverse, well-rounded collection his esteemed stamp of approval.
vbarker@sph.com.sg
