The 23rd Annual Golden Melody Awards ended on a beautiful and satisfying note on Saturday night. The judging panel was extremely pleased with the outcome of the awards, stating that most of the votes were unanimous. The judges all agreed the Best Mandarin Female singer and Best Mandarin Male singer were rightfully awarded to Tanya Chua (???) and Luantan Ascent (????), adding that the votes between first and second place in each category were fairly wide.
Tanya's achievements were especially acknowledged for recording the album live with the band in the studio, proving her singing ability worthy of the award. The excitement from male singer Luantan Ascent was quickly dampened as he accidentally dropped his awards backstage right after the ceremony, breaking them into pieces. When asked about his comments, he replied, "I'm so hungry. I want to have a delicious meal."
The ceremony kicked off with Hong Kong singer Karen Mok performing 4 songs ranging from the 30s to the 90s in a jewel-studded black Chinese dress. Her eight-minute performance awed the audience as she showed off her body with different outfits. Moi's low, sexy voice kept the audiences enthralled as she sang classic Mandarin songs as a tribute to the divas of each era.
Among the highlights of the ceremony was the stage reunion of long-missed girl band S.H.E after member Selina Jen was injured in a fire accident during a shooting for a TV show in 2010. They performed songs from their album "SHERO."
The ceremony also took time to pay tribute to legendary singer Fong Fei-fei. She was a pop diva from the 70s who had a signature look of wearing different hats, earning the nickname "Queen of Hats." Her legend was remembered by pop singers, such as Ricky Hsiao (???) and Sandy Lam (???), who re-sang her famous songs on stage, such as "Fly with you" and "Lovely Baby." Then the audience enjoyed a 3D performance of the legendary diva wearing a white suit and hat performing her hit song, "Cloud of Romance."
Taiwanese rock band Mayday (???) nabbed six major awards. They won the Best Mandarin Album, Best Band, Best Album Producer, Best Music Arranger, Best Composer, and Best Song of the Year with their eighth album "Second Round," released in 2011 after a three-year wait.
In the competitive Best Mandarin Female Singer category, Singaporean singer and songwriter Tanya Chua (???) beat strong contenders Hebe Tien (???), Amei (???), Stefanie Sun (???), A-lin, and Waa Wei (???) to win the title with her performance on the album "Speaking of Love (???)."
Meanwhile, the Best Mandarin Male Singer went to singer and songwriter Luantan Ascent (????), who beat Yoga Lin (???), Jay Chou (???), Eason Chan (???) and Jam Hsiao (???).
Other winners included Best Lyricist Wu Hsiung (??), Best Taiwanese Male Singer Huang Shan-liang (???), Best Taiwanese Female Singer Jeannie Hsieh (???), and Best New Artist Llid Kaolo (?????).
The Lifetime Contribution Award went to 84-year-old Taiwanese singer Wen Hsia (??), who has sung many Taiwanese-language hits translated from Japanese songs.
