In the face-off between Hollywood's latest Snow White and Evil Queen, who's the fairest of them all?
Kristen Stewart's and Charlize Theron's characters battle for the kingdom in their new fantasy movie, Snow White And The Huntsman.
But who wears the crown off-screen?
Well, I'm on Team K.Stew this time. The 22-year-old Stewart really looks more beautiful and put-together with every movie she promotes.
Her press tour wardrobe for Snow White And The Huntsman may have been rather hit-and-miss so far, but at least the US actress is embracing her inner fashionista and stepping up her style game.
It's more than I can say for Theron, who seems content to turn up in black or blue uniforms so far. But more on her next week.
1 Stewart got off to a ridiculous start at the London premiere, standing no chance against such a Marchesa monstrosity.
I appreciate the "goth bride" idea and skeleton motif behind this sheer black long-sleeved embroidered lace gown, as it really ties in with the dark fairy tale.
But Stewart is so NOT the woman to be wearing it.
Or rather, the dress is wearing her.
To be honest, it's a rather unattractive creation from every angle, what with all those weird patches of lace that break her body up.
And don't even get me started on those hideous ruffles that are meant to strategically cover her crotch.
2 She redeemed herself in Berlin with my favourite so far - a form-fitting red and black plaid long-sleeved midi-dress from 10Crosby Derek Lam.
The length is refreshing and she looked sexy yet sophisticated.
She astutely styled it with a punkish black chain-embellished belt from McQ and black Christian Louboutin pumps.
3 At the Madrid photocall, Stewart returned to her signature look - micro-mini-dress, pumps and all legs.
But she brought nothing to this belted blue and black sleeveless BCBG Max Azria striped panel silk chiffon frock.
Also, she recycled the shoes from Berlin and the side-swept braid is so three months ago circa The Hunger Games.
4 She wrapped up the tour in Los Angeles by giving us something different - preppy and edgy, with a touch of androgyny.
The white high-collar buttoned-up blouse, flouncy black mini-skirt, sharply-tailored blazer and black pumps with white platforms are all from Stella McCartney.
She has never looked this cool, chic, sassy and, most importantly, comfortable.
Don't you just love happy endings?
