Nurfarah Nazirah had never been in the spotlight before.
Born in Kuantan, Pahang, Farah as she is known, loves to sing in her spare time.
When her mum spotted an ad for an audition on Facebook, she urged Farah to give it a go.
"When I saw the advertisement, I thought the role would fit Farah perfectly. It was looking for a female actor who could not only sing, dance and act, but must be slightly plump.
"For two weeks, I kept it to myself contemplating whether to tell or not to tell her.
"Finally, after my husband had given the green light, I persuaded her to go for the audition," said Farah's mum, Norlia Kasim, who had accompanied her to this interview.
The audition was for Saw Teong Hin's Hoore Hoore, a musical tribute to the late Sudirman Arshad.
At the audition, Farah sang Sudirman's poignant song, Pelangi Petang well enough to impress the director and producer. The female lead role became hers.
Saw's choice for a female lead is a welcome change. As opposed to tall, slim and gorgeous, Saw wanted a talented kampung girl who could sing, dance, act, and was plus-sized.
Before shooting commenced, Farah and the rest of the cast went through acting workshops and dance classes for a month.
This time last year, she began shooting the film in Janda Baik, UPM Serdang, Bentong and Bagan Lalang for one month.
The whole experience was a learning curve for the 22-year-old lass.
"I have never been in front of the camera or appeared on television before. Since this is my first ever film, I was very nervous.
"But thank god for Mislina Mustaffa. Act but try not to look as though you are acting, she would tell me. Be as natural as possible and stay in character, she would advise me. She really helped me a lot," said Farah of the actress and theatre activist.
Her role as Nurul Aiman requires her to not only be chubby, but lacking in confidence.
Nurul, adds Farah is raised by her grandparents, played by Harun Salim Bachik and Adibah Noor.
In school, Nurul secretly admires a good-looking boy, played by Akim AF.
But there is a big gap between their social standing in that Akim's father is a headmaster, while Nurul's dad is a shepherd.
Meanwhile, Nurul's granny, a former beauty queen, wants Nurul to enter a beauty contest.
So when Nurul's parents are away performing the haj, Nurul enters a beauty contest.
"The musical is not just about song and dance, it also presents family issues and conflicts.
"My parents who are pious don't see eye to eye with my granny, who tends to be a bit more liberal.
"I think we can all relate to that."
Also featured in the movie is sexy bombshell, Kilafairy.
"Kila plays Rita, a beautiful bully who is also in love with Akim.
"As Nurul's number one enemy, she is all out to destroy me."
Although the role can be pretty demanding, Farah finds it both challenging and fun as she gets to do the things she likes.
"In the movie, I had to sing several songs with Akim and dance with him too, which I found embarrassing.
"The thing I found most challenging to do was when performing Bercanda Di Pasiran Pantai by Sudirman, where I had to roll on the beach while being coy and needy.
"But like most of the cast, Akim too was very helpful. He was funny and always cracking jokes.
"When it came to work, he would remind me to be serious," said Farah, who also adores Akim as a singer.
In the movie, Farah performed several hit songs by Sudirman, such as Bercanda Di Pasiran Pantai (a duet with Anita Sarawak), Merisik Khabar, Kasih, Pelangi Petang, Anak Gembala, Terasing, One Thousand Million Smiles, Balik Kampung, Ayah &amp; Ibu and a new song Idola, written by Azlan Typewriter/Audi Mok.
Asked if she had seen her work, Farah said she had and found it weird.
"When I saw the movie, I couldn't understand why people liked certain scenes so much. But I guess that's show business. I need to get used to it," said Farah, a student of Unisel, currently pursuing a course in graphic design.
At the shoot, I remarked about her being supposedly overweight as I didn't think she was that "big".
"Oh, I managed to lose 6 kilos during the shoot."
