Dig it.
Broadway star Sutton Foster lights up the small screen in dance drama Bunheads Everyone loves dancers.
Get past that prima donna attitude and almost psychotic dedication to the craft, and they're the most loveable people.
After all, Natalie Portman could have married anyone in the world - a prince, a tycoon, an astronaut. Instead, she married a dancer.
The new show Bunheads is all about dancers and dancing, and its star, Sutton Foster, is the most adorable woman of all time.
Tall, skinny and unexpectedly dorky, she's blessed with an unearthly talent that has landed her roles in Broadway hits and snagged her two Tony Awards.
She has done a bit of work on television, but this is her first lead role, and she nails it.
She plays Michelle Simms, a Las Vegas showgirl who is getting too old for the biz and marries the kindly nerd Hubbell Flowers (Alan Ruck) out of desperation.
He takes her back to his small hometown, where Michelle learns that he still lives with his eccentric mother, Fanny (Kelly Bishop), who happens to be the local dance instructor.
Gee, I wonder where this plot could possibly end up going!
The show is produced by Amy Sherman, who was the woman behind the knife-sharp Gilmore Girls, and the pilot episode, which aired two weeks ago, was directed by Kenny Ortega, who helmed the High School Musical movies.
As you might expect with these two dynamos in charge, Bunheads has plenty of zing, pop and sparkle. Michelle wastes no time in befriending the young ballerinas in Fanny's dance class and teaching them how to loosen up.
Ballerinas are just so uptight!
She shows them how to do some sort of retro Beach Blanket Bingo dance (ask a grandparent) and, of course, the chubby girl is the best, showing up the stick-thin diva.
Take that, svelte people!
As entertaining as the kids are, the main drama centres on the love triangle between Michelle, Hubbell and Fanny.
Ma Fanny had no idea that Hubbell was bringing home a bride and she resents having to share her knickknack-filled home with this Vegas usurper.
Though Michelle doesn't love Hubbell (and she tells him as much), Hubbell loves her dearly. So powerful are his feelings there's a big scene where he stands up to his overbearing mum and tells her off at a party in front of the whole town.
Wow, you're thinking, this Hubbell is actually pretty cool. I can't wait to see more of him in the upcoming episodes!
You might be thinking how nice it is to see Alan Ruck - who plays Hubbell - again. He has really aged well since playing dorky teen Cameron in the 1986 classic Ferris Bueller's Day Off. Especially since he was 30 when the film was made.
You might also be thinking how nice for him to get a regular job on this cool new show. Well, too bad, suckers.
SERIOUS SPOILER ALERT!
Hubbell actually dies in a car wreck at the end of the episode. It's a wrench, but plot-wise it makes sure Michelle is obligated to stay put out of guilt.
So now what we have is basically Gilmore Girls - a zippy mother and daughter(-in-law) dramedy - just with older girls.
And dancing.
Lots and lots of dancing.
Catch Bunheads on SingTel mio TV Season Pass, any time on demand.
