SINGAPORE - Coming to a screen near you: Bloggers in a Jack Neo movie.
The local producer-director is casting his net for new talent and he has set his sights on our very own bloggers who have dominated the social media platform.
In an interview with The New Paper on Sunday last week, Neo, 52, explains: "Many of them (the bloggers) are names in the blogging world.
"Mention them and chances are, nine out of 10 would know who they are."
Neo rattles off some examples: Aaron Tan, Steven Lim, Noah Yap and Mr Brown in the male camp.
Or, the women bloggers such as Xiaxue, Dawn Yang, Qiu Qiu or Peggy Heng.
Though women will be cast, Neo's focus for the movie are the men as the title of his new military-themed film indicates - Ah Boys To Men.
Slated for a year-end or early 2013 release, the film boasts a budget of approximately $3 million, and it is set to become Singapore's most expensive film to date.
Other than creating "never-before-seen war scenes in Singapore", Neo also hopes to set another milestone in his search for new faces.
He says: "It may be safer to bet on familiar faces (for the cast) but I feel it's time to inject fresh breath to a scene."
Neo needs to make up a platoon of 40 soldiers from different racial backgrounds - Chinese, Malays, Indians and Eurasians.
The different races, he says, are representatives of a real local army platoon.
Neo admits that he hit on the idea of picking local, opinionated bloggers for their current status: They are popular.
They also have a fan base and have become personalities in their own right.
Says Neo: "Love them or hate them, people still follow them or look up their videos on YouTube.
"Be it to support or to make fun of the bloggers, people still do it."
And the bloggers who have clearly tickled Neo are Aaron Tan, 18, and Steven Lim, 35.
Says Neo: "If you watch with an open mind without judging them on moral values or even the bad language, you'd actually find that they are very entertaining."
He adds: "Shock value aside, they are such naturals on screen."
When contacted, an excited Lim says: "Oh! Are you serious? If this is true, it's really an honour. Jack is definitely a prominent film-maker and it would be hard to say no."
Lim, who has caught all of Neo's movies, adds: "This is a good break for us (bloggers). If the role is right, I can accept it. But I need to know more details."
Neo has left the main task of tracking down the bloggers to his casting directors, Pepper See, 34, and Danli Lok, 30.
And famous or not, the bloggers, along with other actor-wannabes, are expected to film a short introduction of themselves.
Lok says: "It's to give us an idea of who you are and what you are like."
She adds that for this movie, what they are looking for are interesting personalities or characters, not just actors.
After the bloggers are picked, they will be given a script.
Says Neo: "So you can write. Can you act too?
"You may look good in your home-made video but can you pass the screen test?"
Not that Neo thinks the process will be too tough.
He says: "One of the best things about acting is you don't need to have a professional certificate or qualification.
"You just have to be comfortable in front of the camera."
Co-producer Leonard Lai, 39, says: "Raw talent is usually the best but those selected will still go through a short training stint to prepare them for what they can expect.
"It's a short boot camp, one that will help you slip into the role easily and more naturally."
And it's not just the male bloggers.
The women are also on Neo's list because "the film will not be confined only to the army".
He says: "We will take a peek into the families of those in the army to understand why they turn out the way they do.
"That means, we get to meet their sisters, their girlfriends or even their wives."
Neo concedes that much of this is his wishlist and that it all depends on what the bloggers think or how they will react to his open invitation.
"I hope they see it as a chance to raise their profiles, and take up the challenge," he says.
"I'm also very excited to see what kind of chemistry we can get by bringing them together in one production."
And what if it explodes, say, between Tan and Lim, who appear not to get along?
Neo says with a chuckle: "Of course I hope they don't fight! Who knows? They can even end up becoming good friends."
But it looks like he may not have to worry.
Lim promises that he will "not cause any trouble". He says: "It doesn't matter even if I have to act with Aaron.
"We have to be professional and when it comes to work, personal issues should always be set aside."
