In the end, she made up for her silence to Singapore fans.
After playing coy with them at the airport and at her hotel over the weekend, Lady Gaga put on an unforgettable show at the Singapore Indoor Stadium on Monday's night, the first of three dates she plays here as part of her Born This Way Ball tour.
She was equal parts dangerous and charming.
Foul-mouthed at some points, saccharine sweet at others, she wielded prop machine guns as well as taking time out from her songs to tell personal stories to the sold-out crowd.
Going through over 10 costume changes, Gaga, 26, raced through a tightly-choreographed show that lasted over two hours and was heavy on material from her second album Born This Way.
As befitting a ball, the stage was turned into a castle with moveable parts, with Gaga racing up and down the four floors of the set during her songs.
While performing Edge of Glory during her encore, she was dipped and turned by a dancer on the top floor of the castle, as fans watched agape.
During Heavy Metal Lover, she came out lying face down on a three-wheeled motorcycle.
There were throwbacks to her award show appearances, too - the Born This Way birthing sequence she debuted at the Grammy Awards last year was amplified on stage last night, with Gaga appearing atop - and later from within - a large, milky-looking sphere.
The famous MTV Video Music Awards meat dress was referenced too, though this time it was a cute party dress made to look like it was made of meat, and she introduced it while she appeared on a rail flanked by two human-sized cadavers.
Her dalliance with the more dangerous elements of her show wasn't without humour.
Continuing with the raw meat theme, she performed Alejandro by sitting on a couch made to look like it was made from flesh, calling each part of it Roberto, Alejandro and Fernando, before adding: "Why keep your ex-boyfriends around when you can have a Spanish couch?"
She was cheeky - literally.
Clad in little more than an outfit made of leather straps and a black thong, she turned her back to the audience and wiggled her bum while asking: "Are you having a good time? If you're not, I don't give a ****!"
Appreciating our island, she declared: "Your country is ****ing beautiful!"
But when she wasn't being a bad girl, Gaga was very good indeed.
"It's hot (in Singapore), but it's the good kind of sexy and sweaty," she teased at one point.
She punctuated her song Hair with a lengthy story of her time as a misunderstood, bullied teenager who was once thrown into a trash can.
"I didn't want to tell my mum and dad, I didn't want them to know I was a loser," she said.
"Some of you might feel like you're in the trash, but you're not. You have something special to give," she added, before finishing the song as fans in the standing area were shown on the stadium's two jumbo screens tearing at their idol's words.
Gaga proved she could be charming off-the-cuff, too.
When a tiny doll was thrown on stage, she picked it up and made it dance to Born This Way for a good 30 seconds, as the crowd giggled.
"If you've ever wondered what I'm like when I'm not on stage, I'm like that. I just do strange things like that," she said.
There were more stories to tell - like how the signature "monster claw" that she and her Little Monsters (as her fans are called) use as a hand signal came about.
The story goes that the singer was in Boston when she heard her song Love Game playing in a car while she was on the road, and she saw passengers in other cars roll their window down, put their arms out and make paw signs.
"That was when I realised Little Monsters had been born," she said, smiling, as the Little Monsters in the crowd roared.
In fact, the little monsters were credited with everything from being the inspiration for her fashion and make-up ideas to being the reason her heart beats.
At one point, she paused to appreciate a fan's leather outfit, noting: "You look like me."
After asking the crew to get the fan on camera, she made his day by telling the crowd: "All you other queens have your work cut out for you."
Then, there was the unending humility, which she stressed throughout the show.
"I wake up every morning and I pinch myself," she said. "I can't believe I'm a star."
At the end of the night, she finally tweeted her Singaporean fans: "Tonight was magical Singapore.
Hot sweaty dance hall. I had such an amazing show, thank you for all your love! Xoxo kisses and #gagahugs."
