Last Saturday, American indie-rockers The Shins took to the stage at iconic music festival Coachella as part of a line-up that included popular artists like Bon Iver and Radiohead.
It was an important performance, being the first major festival they have played at since releasing their fourth album, Port Of Morrow. After all, the 10-tracker comes a good five years after 2007's Wincing The Night Away.
The guys knocked the new songs out of the park, if YouTube footage - the festival, which continues this weekend, is streamed online - is anything to go by.
Indeed, it seems the break (and the departure of longtime drummer Jesse Sandoval and keyboardist Marty Crandall) has done the Albuquerque, New Mexico, quintet, and its frontman James Mercer in particular, some good.
Mercer, 41, the only original member left, spent his time between Shins albums working with Broken Bells, his side project with producer Danger Mouse.
Since forming The Shins in 1996 (as a side project to his main band at the time, Flake Music), the man seems to have perfected his formula for churning out jangly, guitar-driven melodies.
And on Port Of Morrow, he showcases this - only on a grander scale.
Gone are the days of the nostalgia-tinged songs like New Slang (off 2001's Oh, Inverted World and made popular by the Garden State soundtrack).
Instead, Grammy-winning producer Greg Kurstin - known for co-writing with those like Lily Allen, but also for injecting synth-pop chutzpah into songs by Foster The People - makes everything sound slick and lush.
What this means for long-time Shins devotees is that the sounds that drew them in the first place aren't as present any longer.
But they can take comfort in the fact that songs like The Rifle's Spiral and Simple Song retain the spirit of the outfit, which turned quirky songs like Know Your Onion! and Caring Is Creepy (2001) into cult classics.
Other tracks, like No Way Down, perfectly showcase Mercer's effortless songwriting.
On it, he croons: "Make me a drink strong enough/To wash away this dishwater world/They said was lemonade".
The gauzy title track, on which he affects a Thom Yorke-esque falsetto, closes the album on a dreamy note.
Ignore the Shins fans pooh-pooh-ing. This album was well worth the wait.
