She has dated Singaporeans and is now in a relationship with a Caucasian.
"There are all types of people and a small percentage are (as Chin described). Others are mature, thoughtful and have a good head on their shoulders.
"It's also a generation thing. My friends and I noticed that those in their teens and 20s, who grew up comfortably, take a lot of things for granted.
"For example, when they graduate from university, they expect to land a job and be placed in a senior position. Their salary must also be in a certain bracket.
"It's very different from how we were. We learnt from the bottom up and slowly worked our way up."
Aw did not want to comment about her Caucasian boyfriend - who is known only as Marcus - and also did not want to compare him with her local ex-boyfriends or other Singapore men.
He is dating local actress Joanne Peh.
"(Peh) and I have never talked about me (an American) versus the local guys. I'm against categorising people by where they're from and their race.
"Everyone is an individual and different. Maybe the people (Chin) met are like that, though I know lots of Singapore men who are great guys and not like what she described."
She has dated only Singaporeans.
"I've met men who are like what (Chin) described and I'll just meet them once. I've also met many men who are not like that.
"I believe there are good catches out there and men who are still chivalrous.
"To be fair, not everyone in Singapore grew up in a comfortable environment. Some are pampered, but it also depends on what their parents teach them.
"I think the good men are mostly taken, just like the good women.
"One thing that (Chin) mentioned is that these local men are not stable, secure and manly enough. The same can be said of some women.
"They are probably not ready to settle down. When they are, stability will come naturally to them. "Maybe she should mix with my friends."
She has dated Singaporeans and Malaysians.
"Who is (Chin) hanging out with?
"The people I interact with are not like that. There are different types of men just like there are different types of women.
"I'm sure there are local single men who are nice and humble. For example, in showbiz, there's Nat Ho, Desmond Tan and Ian Fang."
She has dated Singaporeans and Malaysians.
"I can't say there aren't local men like (how Chin described) but the ones I met aren't like that.
"I've met local men who are hardworking. They fight for their dreams and are determined to succeed. They don't complain when they encounter hardship.
"There are all kinds of men and one shouldn't stereotype every local man. Such men exists in every country."
She has dated Singaporeans and a Caucasian.
"I've had my fair share of bad experiences with men. But there are good men as well as the type that (Chin) described. You can't generalise them.
"In the past, I felt there were more men who are flirtatious and commitment-phobic.
"But I also met my girlfriends' husbands who are nice guys, so I think the men here can be quite nice too."
