"I believe everyone should have a place to call home," said Jet Li, the martial arts movie star who is the latest celebrity joining Habitat for Humanity's programme.
On May 12, Li took part at a build site in Guangdong, China, which is one of 15 sites under Habitat Youth BUILD scheme that spans five countries - China, India, Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand.
In just one day, about 4,000 young Habitat for Humanity volunteers laid bricks, mixed cement and wielded hammers to help more than 500 families.
In two countries, volunteers will be helping people affected by recent disasters. In Thailand, volunteers will build a community centre for families affected by the severe flooding last year, which will serve as an evacuation centre during disasters in future.
In the Philippines, 200 homes will be built for families who lost their houses after Typhoon Nesat and Severe Tropical Storm Washi.
"We are very excited to know we will have a new house soon," said Filipino Peter Edrote, 31, married to Nelinda, 36, and father to two young girls. "We have lived in a tent for over four months now and it feels good to know that we will soon have a house."
The simultaneous multi-country build event marks the culmination of the five-month long Habitat for Humanity Youth BUILD campaign to raise funds for, and awareness of, the dire housing situation in the Asia-Pacific region. Tens of thousands of young people have used their social and digital networks to encourage people to donate and more than 1 million people have been reached with the campaign's message.
Habitat for Humanity ambassadors like Filipino boxer-turned-politician Manny Pacquiao, Hong Kong actress and singer-songwriter Karen Mok, Bollywood actress Aditi Rao Hydari, Indonesian singer Delon Thamrin, Filipino actor Matteo Guidicelli, Hong Kong entrepreneur Christie Wo, Indian-American actor Omi Vaidya, Filipino theatre actress Cris Villonco, and Thai pop singer and pianist Tor Saksit have all lent their support to Habitat's Youth BUILD.
