At the recent event to promote the release of Madonna's latest album MDNA (her 12th studio album), Universal Music Malaysia paid tribute to the Queen of Pop, who is known for her chameleon-like images that earned her the title Queen of Reinvention.
Held at the entrance of Pavilion in Bukit Bintang, Kuala Lumpur, 11 impersonators took turns entertaining fans crowding the area. Dressed in Madonna's iconic ensembles which represent the star in various stages of her career as seen through her music videos, the entertainers danced to her hits including Material Girl, Music, Open Your Heart, Girl and Ray of Light.
The songs were taken from Madonna's previous albums namely Madonna (1983), Like A Virgin (1984), True Blue (1986), Like A Prayer (1989), Erotica (1992), Bedtime Stories (1994), Ray of Light (1998), Music (2000), American Life (2003), Confessions on a Dance Floor (2005) and Hard Candy (2008).
Dubbed "The Madonna Museum" event, fans also took pictures with their favourite impersonator and participated in contests to win fabulous prizes.
The highlight was the impersonators' group performance, dancing to Madonna's latest single Give Me All Your Luvin (taken from MDNA),
It also showcased uniformed cheerleaders a la her much talked-about half-time Superbowl performance earlier this year with M.I.A and Nicki Minaj.
Fans who bought the album that day also received limited edition poster of the star. They also stand a chance to catch Madonna Live In Concert overseas at a date and venue to be confirmed later. (Only two prizes available).
And, in conjunction with Earth Hour, Speedy Video Pavilion channelled RM1 off the MDNA album sales that day to The Malaysian Nature Society.
For mobile users who wish to have Madonna tunes on their phones, Hotlink/ Maxis subscribers can get Give Me All Your Luvin (Party Rock Remix) caller ring tone for the first month free from now to April 14. (Terms and conditions apply).
Check out the event that day (photos and post report) at www.universalmusic.com.my or click "like" on Universal Music Malaysia's Facebook page.
