This past decade has seen a dearth in non-fictional chronicles of Singapore - except from one prolific Briton who happened to chance upon the island during a holiday in 1996.
Since that fateful trip, Neil Humphreys has written three best-selling books about Singapore, with a fourth - Return To A Sexy Island - being released this week.
Yet the full-time writer told my paper that he hopes to "pass the baton", and that more people will be inspired to write books about Singapore.
"This book is a call to arms, really," the 37-year-old said.
"There has been so much change in the country during my five years away, and I would love to see Singaporeans' perspectives on how the last decade affected them.
"They should come out of the 'comforts' of their blog pseudonyms, and put their faces and views out for all to see."
Indeed, Humphreys has been penning witty observations of daily Singapore life since his first book, Notes From An Even Smaller Island, was released in 2001.
Having returned here last year after a five-year sojourn in Australia, he was struck by how rapidly Singapore had changed.
The introduction of integrated resorts, casinos, Formula One racing, Marina Barrage and ecological park corridors has made the island far "sexier" than before.
"I felt a bigger culture shock when I returned from Australia than when I first arrived from England," he said. "But amid all the spectacular changes, all the sexiness, one needs to ask the question, 'Who is it for?'
"There is certainly a huge sense of pride among Singaporeans to be living amid such exciting changes, but there is also disgruntlement in that they have to compete fiercely with people from around the globe to enjoy such luxuries."
Hence, he was compelled to visit the new attractions and write about how they affected Singapore.
Initially worried about whether there would be enough new topics to fill a book, he compiled so many that the book was completed within a year of his return.
Indeed, he believes that there are plenty of stories in this small island that beg to be told by someone with a fresh perspective - and a good sense of humour.
"It helps if you have lived in another country. That gives you a much broader perspective of Singapore," he said.
"It is also very important to have a self-deprecating sense of humour. Serious topics can often become easier to tackle once you have the capacity to laugh at yourselves."
