It was a Boyz Nite Out last Saturday, but it was the girls who had the most fun.
Korean-American singer-rapper Jay Park and K-pop boybands SHINee, Teen Top, B1A4 and rookie group 7.9.4.2 rocked the Singapore Indoor Stadium.
The two-hour concert, Boyz Nite Out, was attended by around 3,000 mostly female fans. The boys got the girls screaming with their poster-boy good looks, smooth dance moves and melodious singing.
But it was Park, 25, the next to last performer of the night, who raised the temperature with his sexy bad-boy antics.
After the songs Know Your Name, I Got Your Back and Star, the cheeky idol complained about how hot it was and swiftly took off his red jacket, to loud screams.
He continued to tease the fans, saying in English: "You know, there are times when I'm feeling a little lonely (because I'm) travelling a lot," and launched into American singer B.o.B's hit Nothin' On You.
He then gave the crowd a brief glimpse of his taut six-pack abs by lifting his tank top as he sang, attracting even more deafening screams.
Park eventually whipped off his tank top while performing his last song, Body2Body, complete with saucy dance moves.
The audience went wild.
Park's fan, student Dionne Ng, 14, told The New Paper after the concert: "I totally freaked out because we had a great view of his tattoos and abs!"
Her friend, June Kim, 16, also a student, said: "He was hot! He got the entire stadium screaming. (Park) really knows how to get girls excited."
Dionne thought Park performed very well, as did the popular SHINee, the last act for the night. Fans jumped to their feet, waving to the group with green light sticks when they emerged. But the quintet was missing member Min Ho, 20, whom the group said could not come due to his "hectic schedule".
The others - Onew, 22; Jong Hyun, 22; Key, 20, and Tae Min, 18 - made up for his absence performing their hit dance tracks Replay, Ring Ding Dong, Lucifer, Stranger and Sherlock.
And they won over at least one new fan.
Dionne, who had not seen SHINee perform previously, told us: "SHINee was impressive. They have stage presence and just their performance is worth the ($178) I paid for the ticket."
Other groups that thrilled last night were Teen Top, whose members C.A.P, Chunji, L.Joe, Niel, Ricky and Changjo are aged between 16 and 19.
There was also the quintet B1A4 - Jinyoung, 20, BARO, 19, Sandeul, 20, CNU, who turns 22 today, and Gongchan, 18.
A cake was wheeled out in between the group's performance and the audience sang the birthday song in Korean for CNU.
Through a translator, he said: "I'm really, really touched... My birthday wish is for B1A4 and (our fans) to be together forever."
Last night was also the first time that rookie boy group 7.9.4.2 performed overseas.
The quartet, which made their debut in April with the single I'll be Famous, is made up of Yoo Haeng Hoon, 25, Jo Hoon, 24, Lim Jong Hyun, who turns 24 later this month, and Kim Eung Joo, 23. Not every fan went home elated though.
Before the concert began at 7pm, The New Paper saw 11 girls at the stadium holding foolscap paper with the words "Any tickets to sell us" written on it, occasionally shouting aloud their message.
The girls told us they had been doing that since 1pm yesterday as they are students and could not afford the tickets, which were priced at $148 and $178.
Student Nur Namira Karim, 15, said: "I'm upset (I couldn't watch the concert)... But I'm also very happy that I got to see SHINee when they exited the stadium's back door."
