The titular character, Ariel, in Disney's animated film The Little Mermaid, yearned to be human. Katrin Felton, however, had always longed to be a mermaid since she first saw the movie at age 5.
She had spent many hours sitting in the bathtub with her outstretched legs crossed together, hoping they would turn into a mermaid's tail.
Her wish did not materialise but she pressed on and asked her father to make a mermaid costume for her.
Not amused, her father told her sternly: "You will drown if you swim with your legs together".
Though she gave up on the idea awhile after that, she started practising swimming with her feet together, like a mermaid or a dolphin, when she was swimming with her friends.
"Mermaids do not have knees so I practised the art of swimming without moving my knees," Felton or Mermaid Kat told the New Sunday Times.
"The movement comes from the centre of the body," she said, while gesturing at the stomach, and laughingly added, "then I have to push my buttocks out".
After years of practice, the mermaid movement became second nature to the 27-year-old scuba-diving instructor.
She had learnt scuba diving and free-diving because of her love of the ocean and the lessons taught her how to hold her breath underwater for longer periods of time.
At home, she would practise breath-holding techniques to get used to the feeling.
"Just before you dive, you take in a deep breath. Your brain tells you to breathe immediately after you submerge in the water but you have to fight that feeling because your body has enough air for awhile."
Felton was so accustomed to the breathing exercises that she would also practise while sleeping.
"I would dream about swimming in the ocean with other mermaids and sometimes my husband will notice I am holding my breath in my sleep!"
When this happens, Felton will wake up in the night, and take a deep breath before falling back to sleep.
Surprisingly, it was only about a year ago that Felton received her first mermaid tail.
It was a simple tail sewn with fabric, which she described as "good enough for photoshoots on the beach" but "not suitable for mermaid swimming".
Monofin -- a single fin attached to two foot pockets for a diver's feet, typically used in free-diving -- was better as material for a mermaid's fin, she said, as it gave a mermaid speed.
She had ordered a customised monofin recently, which set her back about US$400 (RM1,230). Then, she had gathered some neoprene (wetsuit material) and sewed them together, with a long zip at the side, to create a mermaid's tail.
The tail took two months to complete, including painting five layers of scale patterns on it with red and black latex paint.
Having swum in Germany, Australia and Thailand, Felton has had ample opportunity to be a professional mermaid in the past year as she was booked for charity events, advertisements, photoshoots and environmental awareness programmes.
She even attended a mermaid convention in Las Vegas, United States, last year, where awards were given out to the best mermaid videos and photographs and all sorts of mermaid-related equipment, games and books were on sale.
Felton is planning to coach other potential "professional mermaids" and said Malaysia was a good training ground because of the warm climate and proximity to the sea.
There will be many aspects to her future training, such as free-diving, underwater modelling, theory and equalisation techniques.
She emphasised that free-diving courses were particularly essential for all potential mermaids.
"For mermaid jobs in deep sea waters, you need to be able to use scuba-diving gear, appropriate underwater hand signals and do buddy breathing.
"It is tough because as a mermaid, you do not have oxygen or a mask and there's water in your nose constantly. Keeping your face relaxed and eyes open while posing and swimming is a real challenge."
Many of us would be familiar with the burning sensation of saltwater or chlorine water in the eyes but Felton is used to it.
In fact, she prefers seawater to pool water because her eyes "do not burn in the sea".
Stares and curious looks were another thing she's gotten used to while travelling with the mermaid tail.
"I used to think people would make fun of me for wanting to be a mermaid at 26 but I have found people are interested and many of them book me for events and parties."
However, it was clear from the sparkle in the eyes as she spoke that the project she was most thrilled to work on was set to happen at the end of this month.
She will be swimming around a shipwreck, off the coast of Phuket, for a dive centre's advertising video.
"The video will show the wonders of diving and the beauty of sea creatures in their habitat."
Felton's mermaid "obsession" is not limited to romantic fantasies and whimsical fancies -- she uses her love for mermaids to encourage people to protect the oceans and marine life.
"As a scuba diver, I witness a lot of things underwater -- fishing nets, fishing boats, fishing lines, sharks and manta rays."
The first time she cried underwater, on Jan 14 this year, was at Banana Bay, Koh Racha Noi, Thailand. She had stumbled upon a black tip shark in the water, caught in a fishing net, and it was dead.
"Sharks are beautiful and not dangerous. They have just been portrayed badly by Hollywood."
Also concerned about the great Pacific rubbish patch in the central North Pacific Ocean, she explained that turtles easily mistook plastic in the sea for jellyfish and hunt it while birds also consume it.
She urged everyone to make an effort to refuse plastic bags at grocery stores, just to make a difference.
Mermaids are such mystical creatures that they were the perfect bridge to teach people about preserving the ocean and the creatures living in it, Felton said.
"If you do not take care of the ocean, one day all the sea creatures that we know now will themselves become mythical creatures."
