Before the finale last Wednesday of Season 11 of American Idol, somebody asked me who I thought would win.
I said: "Hopefully, the singing parrot."
Okay, the dude, Phillip Phillips won, which must have elicited nightmarish groans from marketing execs because, following season after season of bland-guy winners since Season 6's (2007) Jordin Sparks, Idol really needed, if not a female, then at least a tranny champ to rev things up.
What's more, if Phillips were to endorse a Philips CD player, it'd need to be pitched unglamorously as "Phillip Phillips' Philips".
Actually, I don't care.
Except maybe that, if the half-Asian Latina gal - Jessica Sanchez - had won, the Asian market would definitely have been cracked more widely than by William Hung's She Bangs, and Sanchez and Jennifer Lopez might have teamed up for Latin Limbo Rock Night.
The thing is, I have stopped watching American Idol since the snark-iness ended.
Yes, Ryan Seacrest's self-loving, powdered smirk does annoy, but I couldn't be bothered since Simon Cowell left the show in 2010.
Honestly, Cowell was never more snugly and smugly at home than when he was King Of Mean at Idol and, since he left, he's been a pale shadow of his nasty-bast**d self.
Now, just to even things out, I also don't watch his current show, the extravagantly bombastic The X Factor, because despite what Cowell claims, that show's not about the singers but about the judges.
How else can you explain the demographically icky new line-up of Two Old Men And Their Babes (Cowell, L. A. Reid, and newcomers Britney Spears and Demi Lovato), which implies that the only people watching talent shows must be young girls with old guys?
As if to underscore the notion that the judges have become the talking point even when wannabes are opening their mouths in front of them, the first buzz about the new X Factor was that Spears apparently walked out of an audition.
Hey, I'm not the only one put off by such blatant, practised commercialism.
That American Idol finale last week was reportedly the least-watched showdown in Idol history, with a record dip to just 21.49 million viewers.
At its peak five years ago, Idol was a ratings juggernaut with over 37 million viewers.
Now, if audiences in the United States couldn't be persuaded to tune in, you can't expect people here to go nuts when even Channel 5 stopped telecasting the show too.
I don't know how many diehard viewers are still hanging on over here and watching the cable-cast, but I'm guessing that people have gone idle on Idol due to a number of reasons.
First, even Madonna's superstar love child with Justin Bieber couldn't beat those incredible K-pop stars we idolise here.
And second, there are just too many singing contests on TV right now, and this oversupply has made singing seem as boring an endeavour as juggling, paper folding and, as Paula Abdul would deny to tears, dancing.
Look, I'm totally game to follow somebody singing really sensationally, but there's no freshness factor left in Idol, The X Factor, America's Got Talent, and the best series of the lot, The Voice.
Because, one, every contestant from even a cave in Montana would have wised up to reality TV by now and knows how to milk it for sob-story sympathy or hot-story popularity, and two, they just criss-cross from one show to the next - kicked out here, just go there - as if they're interbreeding, like the British royal family.
The bottom line - stark reality has simply set into starkly similar reality shows.
But say, however, if it's American Idol combined with Survivor or The Amazing Race, where a contestant sings wondrously while trying to start a fire or scrambling to a pit stop, now that would really be something. Now, there's also one very macabre reason why reality singing shows don't thrill us like before.
Reality dying shows have stolen their thunder.
Of late, the great singers of yesteryear, those whom we know were not manufactured, conjured up or picked out of a line-up, have been reminding us just how superb and original they once were by dying in droves.
Whitney Houston, Donna Summer, Robin Gibb and Adam Yauch of the Beastie Boys. They sang the songs American Idol contestants imitate in singing.
Simon Cowell might say: "Try harder, singing parrot." But hey, who's watching him?
