SINGAPORE - For most Singaporean women, the thought of conception through an anonymous sperm donation elicits negative connotations.
But what if you were in your 40s, single, and just couldn't ignore any longer that loud ticking of your biological clock?
Three local celebrity women - actress Michelle Tay, singer-host Liu Ling Ling and 100.3 DJ Limei - opened up about heading to the sperm bank as a last resort.
For Tay, 42, who never had a boyfriend, the desire to have kids stems from the fact that she comes from a big family.
Tay told The New Paper, with a laugh: "I would love to have three kids and I don't mind what people say about me going to a sperm donor as there's absolutely nothing wrong with being a single mum.
"I'm not afraid of pregnancy. With my weight, it feels like I'm carrying around a baby every day anyway," she added.
The happy-go-lucky plus-sized comedienne weighs 90kg and is 1.46m tall.
"I think that a mixed-blood kid would be really cute so I guess I would prefer a Caucasian sperm donor," she said.
"But most importantly, if I could choose, I would want the genes of a man who has a good temper as I want my child to be good-tempered."
She admitted: "Of course the ideal thing is for me to meet someone, get married and have children the natural way. I'm giving myself till the end of this year and I will try my best to meet more people."
Tay prefers to hang out at home as she's very close to her family, especially to her two younger (and also single) sisters.
"We work and play together. So I guess with all the love, there has never been really a need to get out there."
Raising her kids as a single mum doesn't worry Tay as she's confident that her supportive family would be there every step of the way.
Tay, who has been in the local Chinese entertainment industry for the past 13 years, is a part-time actress who is an accountant in her family's office furniture business.
TV addicts will remember her in Channel U dramas Perfect Cut (2008) and Perfect Cut 2 (2009) where she played actor Julian Hee's squeeze.
Tay will also be appearing in upcoming Channel 8 drama Absolutely Perfect.
So what is Tay looking for in an ideal mate?
Someone who is hardworking, financially stable and faithful.
Appearance-wise, Tay said that she wants a man who is pleasant but "not that good-looking" as she's afraid that other women would hit on him.
She revealed that when she was 22 years old, two suitors had come knocking on her door but she wasn't ready then to be in a relationship.
That, she recounted, was her only brush with romance.
Both Chinese men - an interior designer and an IT engineer - wined and dined her, and marriage was also suggested.
"But when I entered my 30s and was ready to date, I didn't meet anyone even until now, it's almost like retribution!"
She admitted that she used to be insecure about her weight but has since taken it in her stride.
She tried losing weight, and joined a slimming centre in 2006. But that landed her in hospital even though she went down to her lowest weight ever at 64kg.
Said Tay: "I tell myself as long as I'm healthy, I'm okay.
"I'm not panicking, as I believe the right person will come along. My prince is still finding his way, he's still cutting through a lot of bushes looking for me!"
Liu (pictured above) confirmed she will be seeking a sperm donor so that she can conceive her first child as soon as possible.
The veteran getai singer is famed for starring in local film-maker Royston Tan's film 881 (2007).
Liu, 49, who has been separated from her husband for 10 years and is in no hurry to get a divorce, told The New Paper: "I started my journey four years ago when I decided to have a child via a sperm donor.
"I went to the doctors and they said that I have to produce good quality eggs first before I can consider conceiving.
"After taking Chinese herbs, that (local comedian) Mark Lee recommended, for a few months, I will go for a scan in two months, and if my eggs are okay I will go to Malaysia and get a sperm donor from their sperm bank."
She explained that being over 45 years, she is not eligible to receive aid from local sperm banks. "I've always loved children but when I was younger, making money was my priority."
Liu, who has been married for 18 years, added that her husband, who is living overseas, doesn't know about her plans to conceive.
She said that she won't contact him and is set on having a child as she is certain that she "won't marry again".
On being a single mum, she said: "You need to make up your own mind and once you have made your decision, you shouldn't let what others say affect you.
"As a singer, if I was affected by all the criticism like 'that costume is so ugly', I would never have made it on stage.
"We (single women) want to have a baby and there is absolutely nothing wrong with that. I'm aware of the risks (of giving birth past 40) but I will go ahead anyway because I really want a child.
"I'm sure that the sperm bank will find a good donor for me."
Unlike Tay and Liu, 100.3 DJ Limei (pictured above) said that the sperm bank would be a last resort and even then "talking is a lot easier than doing".
The host of the popular morning drivetime show Don't Give A Damn (week days 6am to 10am) broke up with her boyfriend of eight months just last month.
She admitted that she thought he could be The One.
DJ Limei, in her early 40s, told The New Paper: "To me, it's ideal for a woman to have children, it's what completes a woman and it's not advisable for a woman to give birth late in life.
"But there's still plenty of social stigma tied to visiting the sperm bank. For example I can imagine one's parents going 'you can't find a good man ah?'.
"I don't mind it but it's not something I would purposely seek out.
"Actually I have many good-looking gay friends who have offered to be sperm donors. But I want to try to find my own happiness first."
