Bollywood actor Anupam Kher delights in his baldness.
He recounts with great relish his mediocrity in school, where he barely managed passing grades.
He candidly recalls days when misplaced ambitions of becoming a media tycoon brought him to bankruptcy.
This frankness is marvellously refreshing, especially from an actor who has been in Bollywood for three decades and acted in more than 450 films.
It's also baffling. But Kher's philosophy is simple: "If you talk about your shortcomings, your failures and laugh at them, the world has nothing to frighten you with."
The actor says he learnt this very simple lesson when he first wrote his play Kuch Bhi Ho Sakta Hai seven years ago. He has done more than 270 shows of the play around the world. The play is autobiographical and, according to Kher, it is about the "journey of a man who should have been a failure".
He tells tabla!: "I wrote the play around the time when I was almost bankrupt, because I tried to do too many things, invested in the media and entertainment business. I am not a man of business and numbers. My craft is art. I was bound to fail. The play, in which I reveal every disaster, every shortcoming of mine, became a huge hit and since then my life has fallen back on track. I learnt that I have to draw strength from myself."
He has since worked with Robert De Niro in The Silver Linings Playbook, which is set to release at the end of the year and is also starring in Woody Allen's still untitled film with Frieda Pinto.
He recently released a self-help, motivational book, which he hopes will benefit those who are faced with difficult circumstances. The book is titled The Best Thing About You Is You and is already in its eighth print edition in five months.
Kher says: "I am a small town man from Shimla (a town in northern India). I studied in a Hindi-medium school. Didn't know English till I came to Mumbai to become an actor. By the time I was in my 20s, I was balding, which is as good as the end for an actor. I shouldn't have succeeded, but I did. I have done good work and bad work - but the end result of me as a person is gratifying.
"I have learnt more from my failures than from my success, which is what I talk about in the book too."
Admitting that logically he should have written a book about acting, Kher claims writing a self-help book has been much more cathartic. "It's not a book that dwarfs people, telling them how intelligent I am, and how unintelligent you people are. It's a book about what I learnt from my life," he adds.
The actor, who will be seen in a cameo appearance in Deepa Mehta's film adaptation of Salman Rushdie's Booker-winning novel Midnight's Children later in the year, says he has read only one self-help book in his life and didn't enjoy it.
"The first chapter of the book said 'look people in the eye when you shake their hand'. I thought I do that anyway. I didn't want my book to be anything like that. My book simply says to be yourself. In my book, I would rather have said 'don't look into their eyes if you don't feel like it or don't shake their hand if you don't want to'. There are some self-help books which may be great I am sure, but there are others that mould you a certain way. My point is being yourself is the best thing."
At 57, the actor is busier than he has ever been before.
Apart from his acting engagements, he runs an acting school called Actor Prepares in four cities - Mumbai, Chennai, Chandigarh and London. He hopes to open a branch of the school in Singapore by September.
He is also setting up a theatre workshop in Shimla, for which he has signed an MOU with the government of Himachal Pradesh. He hopes to organise an international theatre festival in the town every year.
He has also started work on another book which is likely to be titled Lessons My Father Taught Me Unknowingly.
He says: "My father was a simple and incredible man. He passed away two months back. And that's when I realised how much I learnt from him."
Despite the work he has done, Kher says he still has a lot to learn about life and acting, which is why he doesn't shy away from taking up any role.
Be it a gritty police commissioner in A Wednesday or being part of a senseless film like Kya Kool Hain Hum.
He says: "I like doing things. What I am doing is not important sometimes. I love the thrill of being on stage and not being able to do a retake.
I love the nuances that you can produce on camera. I love the stupidity of playing a Hindi film villain.
So I have done some ridiculous roles, but I have loved it. The moment you don't take yourself seriously, you love every moment of life. And I think that comes from being from a small town."
ankitav@sph.com.sg
Anupam Kher's book The Best Thing About You Is You is priced at $25. To purchase the book, call 8138-5299
