If you are aware of acclaimed Chinese writer-director Lou Ye's track record, you'd probably be scrutinising his latest film, Love And Bruises, for signs of controversy.
He received a two-year ban on making films in China after his 2000 claim to fame, Suzhou River, premiered at the Rotterdam International Film Festival without his government's approval.
Then, there was another ban, this time lasting five years, after Summer Palace (2006), his sexually charged film with the 1989 Tiananmen Square pro-democracy protests as backdrop, was screened at Cannes, again without official permission.
So, while I was watching the film for any subtext, the question at the back of my mind was: Will Lou be banned again?
As the film begins, we see 28-year-old Chinese undergraduate Hua (Corrine Yam) meeting 25-year-old French construction worker Mathieu (Tahar Rahim) by chance - right after Hua's romantic liaison with another Frenchman ends acrimoniously.
To call their relationship a love story, one would have to tag on the adjective "torturous" for accuracy.
Not only does their first sexual encounter come across more as rape, subsequent love-making scenes between the two are grunting matches where the woman is treated as an object of obsession to be subjugated with barely a hint of tenderness.
The narrative style here is simpler than Suzhou River's more fractured ways.
But some trademark techniques remain, with Lou forcing us to view the proceedings with the shakiness of a handheld camera and frequent close-ups stirring feelings of claustrophobia.
It's interesting to note that Hua is intellectually superior, yet she is addicted to the relationship and the endless trysts as much as Mathieu is.
And, perhaps out of a need to overcome her sense of loss or due to a misplaced notion of romance and security, she makes no attempt to leave the tangled affair.
In any case, mutual or self- respect is in short supply.
While there are attempts to bridge the cultural divide, such as when Mathieu and his male friends share a Chinese meal with Hua, with conversation touching on pop-music trends in China, she soon discovers that she is labelled as "b**ch" (alluding to the title of Jie Liu Falin's autobiographical novel from which the film is adapted) and "wh**e", and treated accordingly.
Both leads are strong: Paris-born model-actress Yam handles her emotions spot-on, and Rahim follows up on his success in 2009's Oscar- and Palme d'Or-nominated A Prophet with a roguish turn filled with an equal part of maniacal menace.
Eventually, Hua returns to Beijing for a translator job. And even though she can't quite get over her love for Mathieu, she accepts a marriage proposal from a former boyfriend.
But, when she travels back to Paris, she can't help seeking out Mathieu - and the question of whether she ultimately chooses the freedom and debauchery represented by Paris or the straight-laced safety of Beijing is left open-ended.
So, is this film a commentary on China's image in the eyes of outsiders?
Or perhaps a statement on the allure that the West still holds for Chinese intellectuals and, dare we say, dissidents?
As we watch Hua weaving in and out of relationships in desperate attempts to find herself, we are left with the feeling that such navigation between East and West, between love and bruises, can often be as messy as sex and politics.
