SINGAPORE - Techno spinmeister and producer Unjin is the resident act at one of Korea's largest nightspots, Club Ellui.
He is also one-half of techno duo East Collective, along with Korean DJ-producer and good pal Mang.
But Unjin, who started out playing noise rock, became a DJ only because he found he was more interested in devising original and unique sounds.
The 35-year-old Korean, who made his club debut here at Zouk on May 19, told LOUD in an e-mail interview: "My band and I found ourselves moving from (performing with) guitars and keyboards to electronic music instruments and analog synthesisers.
"The constant need to produce cutting-edge sound eventually led me to become a full-time DJ-producer."
Unjin grew up on UK acts such as trip-hop duo Massive Attack, acid house band The KLF and alternative music group Stereolab.
"I feel we all long for both conventional and electronic music, and that's the philosophy I bring to my dance music. It doesn't matter what age the audience is. As long as my music makes people want to get together and dance, I'm happy," he said.
But his approach to music-making isn't purely altruistic.
"Finding or making good music to share with others is a great way to relieve worry and stress. I never feel tired by doing music," he said.
Outdoor dance fest
He said he also enjoyed his first outing here in June last year, when he spun at the outdoor dance festival, MoveMove Singapore.
To commemorate his return to our shores, Unjin gave out free copies of his Club Ellui special world tour CD, entitled Unjin - Welcome to Seoul Underground (Original &amp; Remix), to clubbers at Zouk on May 19.
Though Unjin eschews traditional turntables and CD decks in favour of USB flash drives and (music software) Bolton Live and Tractor Pro, he insists that the "old-school" touch of playing by ear is key to DJ-ing.
And the crowds are rolling in at Club Ellui.
Unjin said: "It's been only a year since it opened, but it pulls in thousands of clubbers even on weekday nights. Our entire crew has been playing every weekday."
