It is a "beautiful project" that has been more than three decades in the making.
Veteran local rocker Ramli Sarip of Sweet Charity fame - and also known as Papa Rock - has released his latest solo album, a collection of 14 old and new tunes that follow a spiritual theme.
"Songs are not like food, they don't spoil," he told The New Paper in a recent interview.
Titled Sadaqa (charity in Arabic), it's not a greatest hits collection per se, though it breathes life into some songs written more than 30 years ago, which are fit in next to newer songs for the album.
As befits the title, Ramli, 59, is offering all proceeds from the sales to a building fund for Hasanah Mosque at Teban Gardens.
He'll also be raising funds for the mosque through the Sadaqa concert on June 16 at the Esplanade Concert Hall.
"I am better known as a rock singer, but the other side of Ramli Sarip is, well, it's difficult to explain. I want people to listen to this and draw their own conclusions," he said.
Sadaqa is also not strictly a gospel album.
Ramli said the songs explore a variety of other themes, including love and forgiveness.
"I see it more as an album about life," he said.
Though Sadaqa comes after the rise of Islamic pop artistes, such as Swedish singer Maher Zain and UK vocalist Sami Yusuf, Ramli stressed he is not following a "trend".
He pointed to Malaysian nasyid (gospel) group Raihan, who soared to fame in the late 90s with songs like Syukur and Senyum, as an example that there has always been a market for faith-based songs blended with pop-rock elements.
Raihan will be the special guests at Ramli's upcoming gig.
But Sadaqa is not Ramli's first foray into songs about faith - 1997's solo effort, Syair Timur, was his "heaviest" album to date, with songs touching on struggles of the soul and mortality.
"When I was part of (70s Malay rock band) Sweet Charity, we were not too serious about songs of this nature because I respected what the group sound was," he said. "But once I went solo in the mid-80s, I started exploring further."
He sees no conflicts between the rock music he's usually known for and this spiritual bent.
"Music has no boundaries. It's all about the message. It's all about the spirit. It can be R&amp;B or any other genre, but it can still touch people in a certain way," he said. "It's up to the listener to be open-minded."
He's also not keen for listeners to think he's attempting a heavy-handed message on religion.
"I'm just an ordinary guy. I respect rules. I don't drink and I don't smoke, but that may not mean I'm good," he said.
Ramli, who still travels to Malaysia on weekends to play gigs and private shows, has no intention of stopping just because he's turning 60 this October.
"As long as God gives me health, I will do this."
