WHAT: Morrissey Live In Singapore VENUE: Fort Gate ATTENDANCE: 4,500 WHEN: Tuesday
Oh, Morrissey.
How you charm in your very strange way, and then just as quickly pull back, leaving adoring devotees clamouring for more.
Indeed, the English singer's maiden Singapore show on Tuesday night was a proverbial tug-of-war, a back-and-forth tussle between getting what you desired and wanting more, more, more.
It didn't help that the sweltering weather - 4,500 sweat-drenched music lovers packed into the smallish Fort Canning venue does not make for a comfortable situation - had most baying for blood, as the man kept them waiting for an hour before he hit the stage.
The audience reaction was understandable, given that this gig had been a long time coming. The audience therefore included ardent fans, with some bearing chrysanthemums in a nod to Moz's love for flowers.
But, once the 52-year-old, born Steven Patrick Morrissey, appeared at 9pm, all was forgiven and it was game on.
Though his band The Smiths split acrimoniously in the late 1980s, negating any chance of a reunion, the guy acknowledged the importance of his past by opening with How Soon Is Now? (1985), one of their most popular tunes.
Other Smiths numbers, such as Shoplifters Of The World Unite (1987) and I Know It's Over (1986), also featured quite prominently in his 18-song setlist, which was punctuated by plenty of soundbite-friendly quips.
"If ever there was a time to lose your head, it is now," Morrissey declared as fists were raised into the air early on in the show, for instance.
His signature baritone, as he tackled some of his solo work, like Alma Matters (1997) and First Of The Gang To Die (2004), was rich and resonant. And, always one with a flair for the dramatic, he twirled his microphone wire and flailed his arms in broad strokes, like a matador, as he performed.
For 90 minutes, he soldiered on through the muggy heat, which clearly had an effect on him and led to four shirt changes (all in his trademark, long-sleeved, button-down style, mind you), not to mention an impromptu striptease that left him bare-torsoed for a few seconds before he dashed off-stage to change.
And, true to his reputation as a provocateur, Smiths' sermon-esque pro-vegetarianism anthem, Meat Is Murder, was accompanied by graphic images of animals being slaughtered.
How very Morrissey.
But, though the singer was exactly as one might have expected - a flamboyant showman with an ego you just cannot ignore - the night's mood never tipped over into becoming bleak or broody, despite the mournful subject matter that have remained a constant in his songwriting over the years.
Instead, there was a poignancy that filled the air, a sort of triumphant gleam emanating from the audience, celebrating the fact that the fans had finally met their idol.
And, before he took his leave (much too quickly, to the dismay of many), as Morrissey bent to meet his faithful following, accepting gifts and handing out setlists, there was a definite sense that the connection made meant as much to him as it did to them.
Looks like Moz, beyond his big public persona, is - just like that opening song says - human and needs to be loved, just like everybody else.
