He failed his O-level exams five times and held odd jobs, working as a waiter in a nightclub and selling fishball noodles and illegal VCDs in his youth.
Anthony Levi Kho was also in the newspapers for the wrong reasons, like when the body of his father, Mr Kho Nai Guan, was found abandoned in a car at Orchard Towers in the infamous 2002 double murders.
The body of the senior Kho's girlfriend was discovered in the boot.
Eight years ago, Kho also owed $87,000 in credit card debts after buying a van, camera equipment and home electronics. He and his wife finally cleared the debts in 2010.
But the 32-year-old Singaporean shutterbug, whose highest qualifications is the N levels, is now making headlines again, as he's become the photographer of choice for some Taiwanese celebrities.
His company, Let There Be Light, was the official photographer and videographer for Taiwanese singer- actress Ella Chen's wedding ceremonies in Pingtung in south Taiwan, Taipei and Malacca last month.
The 30-year-old member of popular girl group S.H.E married Malaysian businessman Alvin Lai, 36.
The company also shot for Taiwanese actress-host Barbie Hsu's wedding to Chinese businessman Wang Xiaofei in Sanya, China, last March, and also Taiwanese actor-host Blackie Chen and singer Fan Fan's wedding two months later.
Kho, who has been a wedding photographer since 2005, also roped in his friends from the Wedding Photographers Network, a collective of local wedding photographers, for those events.
Kho - who goes by his nickname Dou Nai (Mandarin for soya bean milk) in Taiwan - feels very blessed and happy about these opportunities.
"Other photographers usually sponsor their services (to the celebrities). But (Ella, Barbie and Blackie) chose us and paid for our work," said the father of a two-year-old girl.
He and his wife are expecting another child at the end of this year.
"They probably like my shooting style. Maybe they chose me because I'm a friend and I know what angle they look good in. They feel comfortable with me and know I can keep their privacy."
Kho charges all clients $4,000 for a one-day wedding shoot and $4,800 for the shoot and a photo album, even the celebrities.
But clients also pay for the daily travel allowance, air ticket and accommodation for overseas jobs.
On his famous clients, Kho said: "Ella and Alvin are a very loving and crazy couple. He's usually rather quiet but he goes crazy, in a good way, when he's with her.
"She is very playful with friends, but with him, she becomes very teh (Hokkien for coy), docile and feminine...
"The wedding guests in Pingtung (where the couple held an engagement dinner) and Malacca were very enthusiastic. There were too many people who wanted to get a photo and they were like a wall blocking us.
"At these two places, the friends and relatives were scary, but in Taipei, it was the press members who were very scary. They were very anxious to get their own shots."
Kho recalled Hsu, 35, and Wang, 30, were a very private couple, and while they appear cold, they are actually very warm people.
As for Chen, the 35-year-old shows how much he appreciates his wife Fan, 36, by scaring her, like throwing fake cockroaches and snakes at her.
Kho claims he has become friends with them - especially Chen, whom he considers his benefactor.
Chan, as the stills photographer for his movie Chinese Zodiac, and Jay Chou and Lin Chi Ling for the Love Life campaign, but he's closer to A-mei, Wang Lee Hom, Shawn Yue, Eddie Peng and Barbie and DeeHsu, he said.
"I can just call them and ask them where they are and to come out for coffee," Kho said.
"Artists usually put up a barrier, but once you are close to one artist, the rest think you are okay and they lower their guard."
Kho broke into the tight Taiwanese circle through Chen, whom he met in 2008 on the set of the local movie The Wedding Game, which starred Christopher Lee, Fann Wong and Chen.
Kho was the official stills photographer for the movie, as well as for other homegrown films like Blood Ties (2009), Love Cuts (2010), Old Cow Vs Tender Grass (2010), Kidnapper (2010)and It's A Great Great World (2011).
Kho said he and Chen clicked because they are Christians.
He took Chen around Singapore and his big break came when, in between the filming of The Wedding Game, Chen invited him to go to Taipei to "photograph something".
Acting on faith, Kho borrowed money from his mother-in-law and camera equipment from friends.
That "something" turned out to be the 2008 Golden Horse Awards, which Chen hosted.
Kho went to Taiwan for another five times between 2008 and 2009 at Chen's suggestion to familiarise himself with the market there.
He snapped photos for A-mei, Dee Hsu and Chen's birthday parties and gatherings, and also the Love Life campaign in Taiwan which encourages people to embrace life.
Said Kho: "Blackie opened up his clique of friends to me. I was like his personal assistant and photographer... and we hung out every day that I was in Taipei.
"He asked me to take my portfolio out with me and sold me (to his friends and business contacts)."
Since then, Kho has been the official stills photographer for Taiwanese movies like Perfect Two (starring Vic Chou and Ella Chen), Mother Android II (starring Vivian Hsu) and also Jackie Chan's Chinese Zodiac.
But the grass isn't necessarily greener on the other side, he said.
"In Taiwan and China, it doesn't matter how good you are outside (the movie production set). The movie crews don't care that I've taken wedding photos for Barbie, Blackie or Ella," he said.
"They don't look at your abilities, they look at how senior you are. And to them, I'm still a junior."
The crews on the movies there also gave him the cold shoulder because they felt Kho had taken a job from the locals, he claimed.
There were times when he wasn't given any food on film sets, and was left stranded on a filming location because he was not allocated transport.
He was also nicknamed "Pang Zi"(Mandarin for fatty) by the crew, who later called him by his name only after Kho was seen talking to the movie bosses.
Although he has found some fame in the Taiwanese entertainment circuit and also in the wedding photo industry in China and Taiwan, Singapore is still home.
"The exposure is good and wider overseas. But if I can get enough jobs here, I will be happy to remain in Singapore."
Lee, 40, who worked with Kho on The Wedding Game and his other film Kidnapper, finds the latter creative, talented and friendly.
He told The New Paper: "I feel happy that he has these accomplishments in Taiwan. It's not easy for a Singaporean to go overseas and find some fame."
Local director Chai Yee Wei, who worked with Kho on Blood Ties, added that he's probably one of the most talented photographers in Singapore.
Chai added that he's also dynamic, cheerful and has a funny disposition.
"He has a very keen eye in looking for the special in the ordinary," said the 36-year-old film-maker.
"He's still a nice guy and doesn't put on airs."
