The question is: Is she going to be star, sportsman, or singer late? Stars are fashionably late, sportsmen are usually a sweat wipedown late and singers are notoriously diva-ishly late.
A girl like Barbardian global music superstar Rihanna is now all three in her debut film role in the Hollywood blockbuster Battleship, which opens here on April 12.
She plays a petty officer second class who not only battles aliens, she also kicks serious sailor butt in a Rimpac soccer match in the testosterone-charged movie headlined by Taylor Kitsch, Liam Neeson, Tadanobu Asano and Alexander Skarsgard.
(Rimpac is the biennial Rim of the Pacific Exercise, a maritime event between the navies.) So the media was duly concerned when Battleship's control centre in the Ritz-Carlton in Tokyo informed us that the six-time Grammy winner would appear "for a limited time only" during a press conference.
They also warned that any questions about her personal life were out of bounds but she would be happy to answer anything about her acting, singing and beauty regime.
Black-clad Rihanna is 40 minutes late but nobody's counting. Because the darling girl is just so nice. She's adorable. Goodness, she's so lovely, with no superstar airs at all.
You have to be tall and thin, and most of all, young enough to wear Givenchy harem pants. The cinch at the ankles draws attention to the four-inch heels (okay so maybe she's deceptively tall).
In Battleship, which was shot in Hawaii, Rihanna's feisty character, Cora Raikes, fights off the aliens.
And if you are so last year as to think Transformers broke the mould in alien territory, wait till you climb on board the destroyers and supercarriers in Battleship.
The plot revolves around a fleet of ships that is forced to do battle with an armada of unknown origins in order to discover and thwart its destructive goals.
Hers is the biggest small role in a feature film yet, popping up everywhere and always armed with different duties.
A bit part really, but the girl's got presence - every scene she's in, she grabs you. She does not sing and she does look un-pretty in Battleship, but Rihanna is the movie's MVP. "Oh that's so much flattery," she aw-shucks my question.
"(Director) Peter Berg reached out to my manager about it. I had no idea. She was late, so I went in the office and these two guys put me in character about thugs and monsters and aliens, and I figured they were producer and director.
"At the end of the meeting, he (Berg) yelled 'you're it!' and that was the audition." Her honesty is so full frontal.
"I had no idea of the (Hasbro) game (upon which the movie is based). I now have a travel-sized one (the game merchandise), from some Happy Meal."
Word has spread like the fires on the ships that Rihanna is in the planning for two other movies. "It was just such an incredible experience. I want to do more."
No further disclosure, but one is a comedy.
About whether she'll be keen to play the late R&amp;B diva Whitney Houston in a biopic, she says: "Absolutely, but I haven't got that call yet."
If there is a backlash - the singing vs the acting - is she prepared?
Rihanna-Pollyanna, with refreshing candour at 24, replies: "Singing is all I ever know, so I've nothing to compare (it with) and it's fine with me.
"I've come into the film industry as an amateur. Some will love it, some hate it.
"Music comes natural to me, but acting is a whole new world. I do my best, to respect the game." She did the homework like a diligent schoolgirl.
"I watched all the Angelina Jolie movies, GI Jane, a lot of action, studied the men and mimicked their swagger."
There was the training for her gungho all-American rat-tat-tat-ting.
"Zero. No injury, no seasickness, nothing," says the trouper. "I ate a lot of ginger sweets all day."
It was the physical part that intrigued her.
"I loved the getting down and dirty, the soccer, even the cussing, but that's far from my natural (self)."
She'd felt like one of the boys as she was the only other female cast member alongside US model-actress Brooklyn Decker, "but they were protective of me".
Rihanna is protected 24/7 for obvious reasons, and how far would you go for a chance to meet her?
Over 36 hours, we tail her, from Ritz-Carlton mid-town Tokyo, to Yokosuka US naval base on board the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS George Washington where the photo call and press conference are held and to the Yoyogi National Stadium for the red carpet premiere.
Ahoy, Rihanna
We chase her up five flights of steep, narrow, metal steps, from the bowels of the supercarrier USS GW (the height of a 24-storey building), which is propelled by two nuclear reactors, to its hangar deck area (1.8ha, about the size of three football fields).
There are 2,000 telephones, 6,000 crew and 18,000 meals served daily.
And only one Rihanna.
So the admiral of the fleet and his gang roll out yards of red carpet flanked by sailors, while the sea breeze turns into a wild wind that blows Rihanna's long black hair across her face so we can't get a good clear shot.
And then the Japanese media asks each of the co-actors what it was like to work with Rihanna. What do you think, they answer.
American movie people talking to local media in Tokyo about how they shot the film Battleship in Pearl Harbour in Hawaii.
I reserve comment.
Meanwhile, it's raining on Yoyogi National Stadium, but it's an indoor red carpet. Don't you just love organisational order Nippon-style.
We find our spots behind the ropes, and not that long to wait, thar she blows! The main cast all stop by for a sound bite.
Another star emerges. It's local actress and The Noose's Michelle Chong in her incarnation as Barberella (rhymes with Rihanna's Umbrella; coincidence only, lah), hands out stuffed sheep (Battlesheep) to the actors who give her a bear hug in return.
Meanwhile, radio or TV media from Indonesia are asking Kitsch to greet fans in Bahasa. "You want me to say apackabaa?"
First, he gets a sheep and now they want him to baa?
Meanwhile, Berg is convincing the China rep: "Singers make good actors - Frank Sinatra, Mick Jagger, David Bowie. When Rihanna arrives, be cool, don't go Riiihanaaa!"
A voice chimes above the rest: "But Madonna is such a bad actress!"
Rihanna is the last to arrive and is whisked away after a doorstop with major Japan media, and dim the lights, roll film.
We slink off in the rain to catch the shuttle bus.
Where is an umbrella when you need one?
