Fame can be a double-edged sword.
Taiwanese actress-host Rene Hou Yi-jun (left), a household name in long-running Hokkien television soap operas, knows all about the "perils" of playing the villain.
"There will always be viewers who become too emotionally involved in our dramatic storylines," the sassy 34-year-old told The New Paper while in town for a StarHub TV promotional event recently.
"Once, all four of my car tyres were maliciously slit by a stranger.
"My series - I can't remember which, it was a long time ago - was airing in Taiwan then and I'm sure that person must have hated my character to the core!"
Hou has played baddies in countless Hokkien soaps from Fiery Thunderbolt (2002) and Taiwan Tornado (2004) to more recent series like the massively popular Love and A Place Called Home.
She's now hosting the Hokkien variety show Zhu Ge's Return, available on demand via Ruyi Channel (StarHub Ch 852).
While her characters in Love and A Place Called Home were more ambiguous in their evil ways, her earlier roles were full-on menacing and scheming.
Even her regular beef noodle stall owner couldn't separate reel life from reality.
"One day, he looked me in the eye and said with a huge sigh: 'Sorry, you have to go elsewhere, there is no way I'm selling my noodles to you,'" recalled Hou.
"Of course I was taken aback. I tried to argue: 'Uncle, you know it's just a show right?'
"As it turns out, he was aware that I was acting, but he simply couldn't help feeling angry at my character."
The Nantou County native - who graduated with a dance degree from the National Taiwan University of Arts, said with a chuckle: "The real me is actually quite ditzy.
"I'm quite clueless when it comes to little details in everyday life.
"For example, I only got my first credit card at 30, because for the longest time, I wasn't sure how to use one... I didn't know you had to activate the card before using it."
Rumours are rife that she is secretly dating veteran Hokkien soap opera actor-producer Hsiao Da-lu, who is 22 years her senior and her co-star on A Place Called Home.
"Nothing of the sort. I'm single," said Hou firmly, brushing off any speculation of a May-December romance.
"Hsiao Da-Ge (Mandarin for big brother) is a wonderful senior and mentor to me. He has helped me a lot in my career and I see him as a friend for life."
