He stroked her knee and complimented her on her slender legs. She asked him to join her for an event at a paediatric hospital.
That was their first date.
After dating for a week, her mind was made up. She could picture them being together forever.
This is the love story of Taiwanese all-girl singing group S.H.E's Ella Chen, 30, and her Malaysian beau Alvin Lai, 35.
The cute couple tied the knot in a glitzy, star-studded affair at Le Meridien Taipei last Saturday.
Chen, who has been very vocal about their relationship, has even pledged to love Lai for 10,000 years and be his wife in their next lifetime.
The newly-weds, who dated for a year, also provided entertainment by clowning around at the ceremony.
The show began when she whipped off his jacket and he ripped off her skirt, to reveal a glittery skin-tight mini-dress amid wolf-whistles from their dinner guests.
The frisky pair started dancing to Beyonce's Single Ladies (Put A Ring On It).
The couple ended their "show" with a few cheeky moves, eliciting wild screams from those present.
After the sexy number, Chen tossed her bridal bouquet to her single lady friends and the lucky girl who caught the much-coveted prize was Taiwan's top female golfer, Yani Tseng.
Chen's band-mate Hebe Tien was her maid-of-honour, while Taiwanese indie band Soda Green's frontman Greeny Wu was Lai's best man.
The wedding ceremony was hosted by Taiwanese television comedians Nadou and Ah-Ken.
Some 500 of the couple's relatives and close friends were there to share the joy.
From Malaysia were singers Melody Chiang, Michael Wong, Fish Leong and her Taiwanese businessman husband Tony Chao.
Other celebrity guests at the 50-table banquet included Harlem Yu, Jerry Yan, Lin Chiling, Barbie Hsu, Christine Fan, Blackie Chen, Matilda Tao, JJ Lin and Chen's other band mate Selina Jen and her husband Richard Chang.
It was reported that Lai who works as an executive at L'Oreal Taiwan earns RM260,000 (S$106,444) annually and his new bride makes 40 times that amount.
The couple is due to host another reception at the grom's hometown, Malacca, on May 19.
