Actress Sarah Lian 's been busy, since heading to Toronto, Canada, six months ago to concentrate on her acting career.
One of the projects of the KL-born, Vancouver-bred lass is playing a sexy shopaholic.
She plays in a ten-episode online comedy series, called Mister French Taste.
It's a cross-cultural comedy filmed in Hong Kong, and revolves around an uppity French etiquette coach, played by actor Olivier Malet.
The coach competes with his prot&eacute;g&eacute;e (played by Osric Chau) for the attentions of shopaholic Lily Lee, played by Sarah (who incidentally, turns 28 on May 12).
Each episode, is about three minutes long.
Sarah told The Daily Chilli, "I'm the love interest of the main characters. It had been a while since I explored comedy and this cross-cultural story is guaranteed to hit a funny bone."
The director of the series, Jennifer Thym, says, "Everyone knows Sarah is beautiful but not many peole know that she is smart and has a great sense of humour and can play it straight to Oliver's outlandishness."
Meanwhile, Sarah is currently hard at work in Toronto, attending auditions and waiting for her big break.
"I had a few close calls for some roles but its a matter of time before I can get a big one, so I'm optimistic, " she says.
She adds, "Last summer I had the opportunity to be on set at the filming of the remake of Total Recall, starring Colin Farrell, Kate Beckinsale and Jessica Biel. It'll be released this August and I'll have to wait and see if my scene will make it to the film."
Sarah also has role in an online crime drama Cybergeddon, a drama on online crimes.
It will premiere on Yahoo! in September and stars Olivier Martinez. the French actor who starred in Unfaithful, and who is also engaged to Halle Berry.
Missy Peregrym (from the cop drama Rookie Blue) also stars in Cybergeddon.
But Sarah's acting accomplishments don't stop there.
She is also acting in Jasmine, a "psychological thriller about a man seeking to find out more about his wife's murder."
The teaser of the independent film is already out.
Written and directed by Hollywood-based director Dax Phelan, the film is currently in post-production and will be ready for the film festival circuit "soon."
It stars Jason Tobin (of The Fast and The Furious: Tokyo Drift fame), Eugenia Yuan (who starred in Memoirs of a Geisha), Glen Chin and Byron Mann.
Cybergeddon is created by Anthony Zulker of CSI fame.
And you thought she was just the Internet Ah Moi.
Sarah, role as the "Internet Ah Moi" in the 2010 MyEG TV infomercial created quite a buzz,
