Boys will be boys - no matter how old they are.
So just imagine the mayhem when you throw two of them in a bathtub filled with bubbles and soapy foam.
Taiwanese idol drama actor Vic Chou, 30, plays father to cherubic Little Bin, seven, in new heart-warming comedy movie Perfect Two.
"One scene required us to shower together... I had to be really alert because we were sitting very close," recalled Chou in a phone interview with local reporters from Taipei.
"He's an active, energetic kid after all, and he might hit me in that area accidentally," said the former member of boy band F4, whose best known works include manga-adaptation Meteor Garden (2001), racing-themed Mars (2004) and gritty cop series Black &amp; White (2009).
As it turns out, there was no point keeping a watchful eye on Bin. "We ended up having too much fun and simply couldn't keep our limbs still," he said with a chuckle.
"I got hit (in the privates) a few times, but it's okay... I tried to put on a strong front!" Perfect Two, which opens here on April 12, depicts the reunion between a down-and-out competitive biker (Chou) and his estranged child (Bin).
It also stars Taiwanese girl group S.H.E.'s Ella Chen as a secret admirer of Chou's scruffy character.
In real life, Chou said his camaraderie with Bin, whose real name is Wen Xuan-ye, is more brotherhood than fatherhood.
"My personality is such that I never like taking on the role of a strict, authoritative elder," he said.
"I'd prefer to be a friend to him, and I really don't mind if that means he is a little disrespectful."
Now that Chou has filmed his virgin shower scene on the big screen, is he ready to take on future shower scenes with a hot sexy babe in Little Bin's place?
"Of course! That'll be even better," said the bachelor, who once famously dated actress Barbie Hsu. 'I draw the line at baring it all' "I draw the line at baring it all... So long as I don't have to pose in the buff, I have no qualms doing it.
"In fact, if such an opportunity arises, I'd consider myself very lucky."
During the interview, Chou also addressed the recent speculation that he had left his former manager, renowned TV producer Angie Chai, "in a huff" because he was jealous that Chai was now giving all her attention to 21-year-old rising star Kai Ko Chen-tung.
Ko burst onto the scene with his breakout role in last year's sleeper hit You Are The Apple Of My Eye.
More than 10 years ago, Chai, the creator of Meteor Garden, single-handedly catapulted F4 to meteoric fame.
"Nothing of that sort," said Chou.
"I was with Fulong (Chai's artiste management company) for eight years. And even though I was technically signed to Chai Jie (Mandarin for Sister Chai), after a couple of years, she stopped managing me personally.
"Kai is a great artiste and our showbiz industry needs more newcomers like him. "Audiences can't be seeing the same old faces over and over again, right?"
"He's an active, energetic kid after all and he might hit me in that area accidentally."
keeyunt@sph.com.sg
