Watching Singapore band Cheating Sons perform last Friday night was a surreal experience.
This could be traced to a new song, End Of The Day, which lead singer Wang Renyi delivered in clear vocals, as arty videos played on projection screens and a svelte dancer pirouetted to the darkly esoteric tune about one's descent into madness.
But the main reason for thinking "surreal" was that the venue, the Esplanade Recital Studio, was where I had caught many international acts, such as Lloyd Cole, Patrick Watson and Eddi Reader.
At this sell-out concert where more than 200 fans and friends of Cheating Sons forked out $25 each for tickets, spirits ran high - on occasions, to an enthusiastic level where the cheering could even be termed "rowdy".
Over 95 minutes, the band belted out 13 tracks from their yet-to- be-titled second album, like the nostalgia-tinged rock 'n' roll number, Devil; the psychedelic The Mercy Of Cain And Abel; and the festive, Mexican-flavoured Los Lobos.
Now, I've been attending concerts by local bands since I started writing in 1990 for Singapore's now-defunct independent music magazine, BigO, which provided extensive coverage of the local music scene.
In fact, several fellow writers are musicians who continue to play in bands today.
But patriotism and friendship aside, there's no better reason to support made-in-Singapore music than the fact that the music is good and suits my taste.
During the 1990s revival, when I was introduced to bands like the Oddfellows and Corporate Toil, English rock music here was often characterised by naivete and a certain rawness that may well be due to the low-budget recording.
These days, however, the improved standard of recording is comparable to that of studio albums from abroad.
Moreover, the packaging of home-grown albums is often top- notch and innovative. Recall The Observatory's Time Of Rebirth (2004): The CD was enclosed in a diary book with pages torn out.
With influences culled from foreign bands and genres, like Brit-rock (embraced by bands like The Great Spy Experiment) and soul-infused Southern rock (which Cheating Sons flaunted on new song Jefferson), one challenge for Singapore bands is how they can continue to maintain their Singaporean identity, while sounding professionally slick.
This is where the lyrics come in. So, it isn't difficult to guess that songs like Siti by Force Vomit and Zoe Tay by the Boredpucks hail from this part of the world.
Watchmen's The High Cost Of Living resound with relevance in any country, with rising inflation rates, but references to MRTs and COEs are quintessentially Singaporean.
I've not perused Cheating Sons' lyrics in detail. A song called Pale Rider, based on both its title and musical style, may bring to mind an image of the American Old West rather than that of, say, HDB flats.
But I couldn't help reflecting with pride that, for a change, I was witnessing our local stage being reclaimed by local sons and daughters.
I watched frontman Wang, guitarist Leong Chee Shan, bassist Donovan Loh and drummer Andy Liew perform live - with the backing of other musicians Andy Yang, Redzuan Hussin and Kevin Mathews, a horns section and three female backup singers.
Such reflection would sound melodramatic, if the gig hadn't been half as good.
The truth is that Cheating Sons impressed with their tight musicianship, diverse musical styles and knack for penning memorable melodies.
The song Courage, Courage may be written as an earnest reminder of the risks and pressures the band had to overcome when some of their members quit their full-time jobs to concentrate on music-making.
But it's also an exhortation for Singaporean listeners to be equally courageous in embracing local music - not out of sympathy, but with an understanding that such music forms a part of our culture and identity and, at times, lends voice to issues that rock our world.
