For Australian singer-songwriter Gotye, fame has been a double-edged sword.
Although his rise to the top has been nothing short of meteoric - thanks to that ubiquitous hit single, Somebody That I Used To Know - he wishes more focus would be on his music, rather than himself.
On the line with my paper from his home just outside Melbourne on Wednesday, the man, born Wouter De Backer, was candid when asked about comments he'd reportedly made recently.
Just this week, the media reported that the 32-year-old said he was "sick" of the hit song (taken off last year's Making Mirrors), which recently hit No. 1 on the United States Billboard charts.
He is the fifth Australian artist to top that chart.
"It sounds as if I sat there saying, 'I'm f****** sick of my song', you know... It's pretty hilarious," he lamented jokingly, adding that the comments were taken out of context.
De Backer also earlier reportedly slammed the Glee version of the song, which was performed on the television show last month.
"(Since the success of Somebody), I've become really aware that the things I say will be manipulated - maybe because I'm a pretty boring guy or something," he said.
He added that, in future, he might cut down on the promotion aspect of things, as "the music can speak for itself".
It might seem, what with all the brouhaha surrounding the megahit, that De Backer has come out of nowhere.
But he's no overnight sensation - Making Mirrors is actually the guy's third album.
Born in Bruges, Belgium, before relocating to Australia with his family at age two, the musician started writing songs and experimenting with a slew of musical instruments as a teenager.
He recalled: "I just loved the musical aspect of playing around with records...taking apart songs that I liked and trying to see how they fit together."
By 2007, he had won an ARIA, regarded as Australia's most prestigious award, and was a relatively well-known name Down Under.
Internationally, his music started gaining traction with his second album, Like Drawing Blood (2006).
Despite his newfound global popularity, De Backer is in no rush to put out a new album.
"I've got demos and scraps of material (that might be used), but developing a live show and going on tour will pretty much keep me busy until the end of the year," he revealed.
But the man is unapologetic about the fact that he can't promise another instant hit like Somebody That I Used To Know.
"I will keep making very varied material, that won't necessarily sound like anything else I've done before," he said resolutely.
No pressure, dude.
