CANNES - Six new Asian faces will be appointed to the current Board of ScreenSingapore, bringing the final lineup to 14 members. The Board now includes industry players from China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore.
They are Yu Dong, Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer, Bona Film Group from China, Shanty Harmayn, Chief Executive Officer, Salto Film Company from Indonesia, Norman Abdul Halim, Executive President, KRU Studios from Malaysia, Nansun Shi, Chairman, Distribution Workshop from Hong Kong, Melvin Ang, Executive Director, mm2 Entertainment and Lim Teck, Managing Director, Clover Filmsfrom Singapore.
On her new appointment, Ms Nansun Shi, said: "Singapore serves as a gateway between the East and West and this makes ScreenSingapore well-positioned to grow into Asia's leading content market in the coming years. I am proud to support this exciting international event."
Asia is a key player in the global film landscape. The growth of the film industry in China and India , together with the spending on movies and home entertainment in Asia Pacific, is projected to reach $30.43 billion in two years.
Mr Greg Coote, Chairman of the Board of ScreenSingapore believes that the new board members would be instrumental in strengthening the Asian focus in which ScreenSingapore has set out to achieve.
The Board of ScreenSingapore provides counsel on the direction and scope of the event. The Board also assists in identifying and securing potential collaborations.
ScreenSingapore will be held at the Sands Expo &amp; Convention Centre, Marina Bay Sands, from December 4 to 7. It is a key marketing platform for the global film and entertainment communities to tap the potential of the fast-growing markets of Asia.
Ms Michelle Lim, Managing Director, Reed Exhibitions, Singapore feels that the inclusion of new board members reflects the growing importance of the Asian film industry.
She said: "We are excited to have their support as we leverage key strengths, explore new ideas and forge new partnerships to build ScreenSingapore to become Asia's leading platform for film content."
