Celebs like TV host Pornsak and actress-entrepreneur Irene Ang are going beyond entertaining the masses - they're feeding them too.
It's impossible not to get attention with a cheeky name like Porn's.
And that's exactly what Thai-Chinese celebrity Pornsak Prajakwit wants in the food and beverage industry.
It has been barely two years since his foray into the food business and already, he has four restaurants to his name, with a fifth slated to open at upcoming The Star Vista mall in Buona Vista later this year.
The charismatic TV host is a live wire, The New Paper on Sunday finds, when we meet him at his fourth and newest branch, opened in January at Junction 10.
He welcomes the team to Porn's with a warm "sawadee kap" (hello in Thai), bowing slightly with his palms pressed together.
The name that he shares with his restaurant means "blessings" in Thai, he says. It's a joint venture between Pornsak, 30, and former MediaCorp producer Foo Tuan How, 32.
"I love to eat," Pornsak gushes. "The thing is...food can bring happiness to people."
He laughs before continuing: "Hopefully, it makes me money as well."
Having no experience in business, he invested an initial $100,000 in the first outlet. Mr Foo set aside a similar sum, according to previous reports.
It turned out to be a poor estimate, and he had to fork out another $80,000, Pornsak tells TNPS. It took them six months to break even.
At the beginning, it was a hands-on experience for him.
The young boss doesn't just man the till - he also serves customers, clears dishes and wipes tables.
Once, the cleaner bailed out on them and he had to stay past midnight to help the staff. That night, he even had to wash the toilet.
Despite having to juggle showbiz and his food business, Pornsak makes it a point to drop by all four outlets daily whenever he's in town.
"It's important that I do, so my staff members know I care (equally) for each branch," he says.
He can usually be found at his restaurants during the off-peak hours of 3pm to 6pm. (Fans: take note!)
Authenticity is a must for the foodie.
Ingredients are imported from Thailand twice a week, and the head chefs at all four outlets are Thai.
Pornsak reveals that he scored a coup with his first chef who used to cook exclusively for Hollywood's golden couple Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie.
These days, he relies on his 50 staff members to run the ship, with Mr Foo at the helm.
He says cheerily: "We're like a family."
Porn's Juction 10 1 Woodlands Road, #01-32 Opening hours: 11am to 10pm daily
Thai cuisine isn't for the faint-hearted.
Exotic spices and fiery red chilli padis tantalise the taste buds. Spice-loving Singaporeans may find themselves in paradise at Porn's.
The larb gai ($8.50) - a dish of minced chicken fried with lime leaf, dried chilli and fish sauce - is tongue-searingly hot.
Try the tom saap ($12.90), or a spicy soup served with either beef or chicken chunks. The soup, served in a hot pot, is sour. It's strangely addictive and leaves you craving for more.
For calorie-counting ladies, the yum woon sen ($12.90) is a diet-friendly option. The glass noodles are topped with squid, prawns, minced chicken and assorted vegetables.
Wash down your meal with a refreshing drink of nam takai ($4.50). The lemongrass drink is light and fragrant - just the thing to top off a satisfying meal.
The Junction 10 outlet doesn't serve pork. Its poultry dishes are also halal.
Japanese fast food joint R Burger first made its way here in July 2009.
MediaCorp artiste Adam Chen, 35, is one of the directors behind the burger franchise in Singapore.
He chanced upon the brand while travelling in Thailand in 2008.
"I thought it was interesting because the hamburger is white and you don't see many of these around," says the actor.
Impressed with the taste of its burgers, he decided to bring the brand to Singapore.
Apart from burgers, the fast food restaurant serves rice and snacks such as chicken wings, nuggets and edamame (soya beans) too.
Chen counts the tsukimi burger, chicken teriyaki don and oyako don among his favourites.
He pops by R Burger almost daily during lunchtime.
At night, the place transforms into a bar, also owned by Chen.
He is planning to take the brand to Malaysia.
R Burger 16 Collyer Quay, Hitachi Towers #01-05A Opening hours: 10.30am to 11pm Closed on weekends
Touted as "healthy", the burgers here stand out from the regular offerings at other fast food places.
The meat patty is sandwiched between two white steamed buns, instead of the usual baked bun. These buns contain marine collagen which promotes skin renewal, claims R Burger.
The avocado cheese burger and tsukimi burger (both $5.95) are popular options, says the counter attendant.
Service is fast and the burgers arrive piping hot.
At first bite, the beef petty seems tender enough. But as time goes by, the meat becomes mushy.
It's a challenge to eat the tsukimi burger as the abundance of miso sauce added to it results in the patty and sunny side up sliding around (and almost out of) the buns.
Our solution? Clamp the burger tightly and chomp down.
When she's away from the stage, Dim Sum Dolly Selena Tan finds herself in another role.
On weekends, she puts on an apron and plays waitress at her mother's shophouse restaurant, Daisy's Dream Kitchen, at West Coast Road.
The five-month-old restaurant serves simple yet authentic Peranakan fare.
"It's interesting for me because I get to meet a lot of people and I enjoy meeting people," says the 40-year-old comedienne, who's also the founder of homegrown theatre company Dream Academy.
Daisy's Dream Kitchen is a family-run operation - Tan's brother Ray, 26, does most of the cooking while her mother Daisy, 62, plays the restaurant's hostess.
"As far as I can remember, my mother has wanted to be in the food business. But we were against it as we were worried that it would be too much work for her," says Tan, who's preparing for the stand-up comedy show, Happy Ever Laughter, which opens at the Esplanade Theatre on June 27.
She says her father pumped $250,000 into the new venture, and the response has so far been encouraging.
"Recently, we even had an 84-year-old Peranakan auntie who came here with her family and said the food was authentic," she beams.
"What (my mum) serves is food I grew up with, so coming here is like being in our family dining room."
Daisy's Dream Kitchen 517 West Coast Road #01-571 Opening hours: Tuesdays to Sundays, 11am - 3pm, 6pm - 10pm
If you like your eateries unpretentious and the food simple yet authentic, do check out Daisy's Dream Kitchen.
Our photographer, who is of Peranakan stock, swears the babi buah keluak ($10) is as authentic as they come.
For seafood fans, we recommend the delicious black-ink sotong ($12) and the otak-otak ($8).
Serving generous portions at prices that won't break your bank, this restaurant is one that warrants repeat visits.
Twelve Cupcakes is barely a year old and it is already making waves on the local dessert scene.
The brainchild of celeb couple Daniel Ong, 36, and Jaime Teo, 35, the bakery has three branches, in United Square, Millenia Walk and Golden Shoe Carpark in the Central Business District.
It started with a conversation between him and the missus, says Ong.
While munching on a cupcake baked by his wife, he tried to convince her that they were "awesome".
Despite initial protests ("No lah, they're okay only!"), she was eventually convinced. They pumped in around $100,000 and voila, the shop was born.
The name was chosen because 12 is the "perfect number", especially for Ong, who loves bowling. When 12 bowling pins are knocked down, it is a strike.
More significantly, "a baking tray has 12 holes," he says.
From the beginning, their roles were clearly defined. Ong was in charge of the business and the design aspects, while his wife ran the kitchen.
Business has always been his interest, says the former DJ.
At the age of 10, he was already quite the entrepreneur.
He tells The New Paper on Sunday: "I bought curry puffs from a woman for 18 cents and sold them under my block for 30 cents."
The go-getter has come a long way since then. He left radio early last year to focus on event hosting and business.
When their bakery opened, they were overwhelmed by the response. To cope, Ong would bake and Teo would prepare the icing.
Now that they have expanded their business, they leave the baking to their staff.
The husband-and-wife team still visit each bakery daily to conduct quality checks.
And when things get busy, Ong has no qualms about clearing tables or washing dishes.
Once, a passer-by saw him doing the former and commented: "Wow. Daniel Ong has fallen to this level."
But Ong laughs it off, saying: "No job is too big or too small."
Running their own business is not without difficulty, he admits.
Managing their staff, mainly youngsters, is a little tricky.
"Sometimes, they don't show up and we have to reallocate our staff," he says.
The couple tries to create a fun working environment to foster strong ties between his employees.
Celebrity pals Gurmit Singh, Cynthia Koh and Jeanette Aw often drop in, while actress Felicia Chin is a fan of their Strawberry Chocolate cupcake.
With three outlets open and another two on the cards, the couple plans to make Twelve Cupcakes a national brand as they hope to reach out to customers from all over the island.
Twelve Cupcakes 9 Raffles Boulevard Millenia Walk #01-52 Opening hours: 10.30am to 9pm daily
At $3 each, the cupcakes are a tad pricey, but the owners justify it by selecting quality ingredients.
French butter and fresh fruits are a must for the gourmet cupcakes, says Ong.
The Red Velvet, PB Chocolate and Chocolate Chocolate cupcakes are the bestsellers. Apart from 12 regular flavours, the store offers three special flavours which change weekly. The latter costs an additional 50 cents.
The popular Red Velvet cupcake is topped with a dollop of light vanilla cream cheese. The savoury cheese flavour complements the moist base.
The Chocolate Chocolate cupcake is a little heavy for dessert. The Chocolate cream cheese and sponge cake may be a dream combo for chocolate lovers, but the average customer might find it an overkill.
For more information, visit www.twelvecupcakes.com.
It is 8.30pm on Wednesday and comedian Mark Lee is sitting across the table from us in Old Town White Coffee in JCube.
Every other table is occupied and a long queue of hungry customers snakes around the entrance.
Never mind that it's almost past dinner time on a weekday night - the cafe is packed.
This happens to be the seventh and newest branch of Old Town White Coffee, co-owned by Lee. It was opened in April this year.
While filming Jack Neo's movie Ah Long Pte Ltd in Kuala Lumpur's Old Town White Coffee in 2007, the funny man, 43, was inspired to bring the brand to Singapore. He says: "That day, I tried all the dishes. I thought they were not bad. And the design of the shop was very nice as well."
Together with close friend Neo and another partner, Lee entered into joint venture with the Malaysian brand.
In March 2008, the first store was opened in East Coast Park's Big Splash. Over the next four years, the co-owners opened six more outlets in the heartlands and in town.
To boost the reach of the brand, the Malaysian company set up another three outlets of their own.
These are not affiliated to Lee's outlets.
Before the opening of each outlet, Lee invites his celebrity pals - local actors Vivian Lai, Pan Lingling and Huang Shinan - for a food-tasting session. They give him feedback on the food and service, he says.
Fans will be happy to know that Lee often takes his meals at his own cafe. Whenever he has an outdoor shoot, he makes it a point to head to the nearest Old Town branch for lunch or dinner.
Beyond maintaining food and service standards, doing business is all about "playing safe", says Lee.
And that means keeping tabs on the economy and sourcing for the best locations for his cafes. He hopes to open his 10th outlet by 2014.
As he speaks about his plans for the coffee chain, his eyes shine. He says: "We build everything from the start, from renovating the place to hiring our employees. I hope to continue because I really like Old Town."
Old Town White Coffee JCube 2 Jurong East Central #01-19 Opening hours: 8am to 10.30pm (Sunday to Thursday); 8am to 2.30am (Friday to Saturday)
Old Town is known for its traditional Malaysian-style delicacies. Ingredients are imported directly from across the Causeway twice a week.
The Ipoh hor fun ($6.90) is one of its signature dishes, as well as the curry mee ($8.50).
The former stands out for its noodles. Each strand is soft, with a jelly-like texture. It melts instantaneously in the mouth.
The minced chicken rice ($7.50) is a let-down.
Served with a fried egg, slices of cucumber and minced chicken, the portion is generous.
But the chilli paste that coats the minced chicken is far too spicy. It sets the tastebuds on fire and drowns out any other flavours that might be present.
Its saving grace is the aromatic white rice which has been infused with a secret ingredient (or two).
Try the Old Town White Coffee ($2.20). Brewed from Liberica, Arabica and Robusta coffee beans, the milky coffee is thick and robust, with the slightest hint of sweet caramel.
For more information, visit www.oldtown.com.my
Comedienne Irene Ang is one of the partners at Fry Bistro.
But the undoubted star of the joint is her 63-year-old mother, Madam Tan Meng Choo.
After all, the latter is the brains behind one of Fry Bistro's signature dishes - Mama Ang's Wings.
The dish is a hit with the customers, and so is Madam Tan, who is often seen interacting with diners and staff.
Speaking about the venture - which opened in December last year with two partners - Ang says: "I cannot imagine myself opening a sake bar, for example."
Added the 44-year-old, who is also the chief executive of talent agency Fly Entertainment: "That's why I planted my mother here, she cooks the food I love.
"She also interacts with the staff and she's very happy."
She pumped $60,000 into Fry Bistro, her second foray into the food and beverage business. It is located opposite another Fly Entertainment property, HQ Karaoke Bar.
Last year, Ang opened Qafe By Night at Tanjong Pagar, but it closed in September due to rental issues.
Fans will be happy to know that Ang is a regular at Fry Bistro, which she describes as "her base of operations" and her "home away from home".
She explains: "I like to entertain and having this place is good for me. Many of my friends and contacts come here and we network over drinks."
Apart from serving a range of cocktails, the bistro also serves canapes, salads and main dishes like fish and chips.
Fry Bistro Level 4 96B Club Street Opening hours: Mondays to Wednesdays, 5pm to 1am. Thursdays to Saturdays, 5pm to 3am. Closed on Sundays.
The food served here - a selection of bar snacks and salads designed to complement its array of cocktails - is hardly ground-breaking.
But a few things make Fry Bistro a must visit.
To begin with, the prices are friendly on the wallet. Another draw is the rooftop bar which offers a glorious view of the city skyline, especially at sunset.
If you are looking for the perfect place to unwind with friends while enjoying a view of the skyline after a hard day's work, look no further
As for the food, we suggest you dive straight into the signature Mama Ang's Wings ($14). The chicken is succulent and perfectly spiced, and comes with a killer sweet and spicy belachan chilli dip made by Madam Tan.
The Threesome Canape with Creamy Dill Prawns, Basil Cherry Tomatoes and Cheesy Mushrooms ($14) is also a must-try.
But the Marinated Mushrooms with Roasted Cherry Tomatoes ($8) is a letdown: It was bland and too soggy for our liking.
As assistant coach for S-League club Tampines Rovers, former Singapore midfielder Rafi Ali spends most of his days on the pitch, whipping his boys into shape.
But less than a year ago, the 39-year-old spent his days in the kitchen, cooking up a local favourite - mutton briyani.
"I was here almost every day until I took up the coaching job full time last June," he tells The New Paper on Sunday recently.
"Coaching is definitely one of my favourites things to do but I also like being at the stall. You get to meet many different people every day," he says.
The stall, Ali Nachia Briyani Dam, is located at a coffee shop inside Tanjong Pagar Plaza. It is the brainchild of MrRafi's father Mohd Ali Abdul Latif, 62, who ran a dum briyani stall at the Tanjong Pagar Railway Station since 2002.
He moved out of the station last year when ownership of the 26km track from Woodlands to Tanjong Pagar reverted to Singapore and the train station was shut down.
The new stall is a favourite of those working in the heart of the Central Business District.
There are long lines at lunch time for the fluffy basmati rice served with spicy mutton curry, which sells for $6.
Says Mr Rafi: "The meat and rice are cooked together for a long time and that blend creates a mix that is really popular with customers."
But better go early, because "we are completely sold out by 2pm each day," says Mr Mohd Ali with some pride.
The father of three (who was also a former butcher and soccer coach) had honed his skills in whipping up dum briyani since the 1970s when he was a wedding caterer.
The family operates another stall at PSA Tanjong Pagar Complex at Keppel Road, which is managed by a younger son, Mr Mohd Shah, 36.
Mr Mohd Ali doesn't deny that many people come for a taste of his briyani because of his famous son. But he says the stall also attracts a legion of its own loyal followers.
"Just the other day I saw this Danish tourist who first visited my stall many years ago," says Mr Mohd Ali.
"Now every time he comes to Singapore, he brings people to my stall."
Ali Nachia Briyani Dam Block 5 #02-05 Tanjong Pagar Plaza Opening hours: 11am to 2pm (Monday to Saturday)
It is fair to say that nasi briyani is the mortal enemy of calorie counters. Most times, it is far too oily and ladled with a overpowering curry before being topped with a tough piece of meat.
But the mutton briyani ($6) at Ali Nachia Briyani Dam is a pleasant surprise. The loose-grained basmati rice is fluffy and good enough to be eaten on its own.
The delicious yet non-spicy side dishes - raita (cucumbers in yogurt), achar and added vegetable curry - also make for perfect accompaniment.
But the real star of the dish is the meat. It falls off the bone and is delicious when paired with heaps of fragrant briyani.
