They ruled Bollywood decades ago.
We're talking about the ravishing Rekha, sultry Shabana Azmi, zesty Zeenat Aman and scintillating Sridevi.
Although some, like Rekha, are already pushing 60, they're still holding strong in the Indian movie industry.
Their faces are no longer taut and their bodies have somewhat lost the youthful voluptuousness. But Rekha - who won the lifetime achievement award at the recent International Indian Film Academy (IIFA) Awards held here - is still getting lead roles.
She is starring in a new movie, Aaj Phir Jeene Ki Tamanna Hain (Desire To Live Again), with actor Shatrugan Sinha.
While the 57-year-old steadfastly refused to talk to the press during the IIFA Awards, she did say after her win: "I am so honoured to get this award. I'll continue to do good work as I love it."
She added: "The youth of today are doing so well. Look at Priyanka (Chopra) and Shahid (Kapoor) and all else. I'm sure they will carry on with the good work.
"But we (the older ones) aren't going anywhere yet."
The same goes for Azmi, who is the wife of esteemed lyricist Javed Akhtar, 67. The 61-year-old - who looked absolutely gorgeous in her prime 30 years ago but has since visibly aged - still acts in theatre and is an active feminist in India.
But unlike Rekha, who shies away from the press, Azmi has let fame get to her head.
When The New Paper asked for the secret to her longevity in the industry during the IIFA music workshop on June 9, she replied somewhat arrogantly, with a look of mild boredom: "That I am at the right place at the right time, and Hindi movie roles are getting better and better with more roles (being offered) to women of my age."
Azmi recently appeared in the play Broken Images, which ran for two days at the Drama Centre earlier this month.
As for Aman, 60, she was the second runner-up of the Miss India contest in 1970 and went on to win Miss Asia Pacific that same year.
Upon making her debut in Bollywood shortly after, she was credited with making a lasting impact on the image of its leading actresses by bringing the Western heroine look to Hindi cinema.
Throughout her career, she has been considered a sex symbol. And today, she is still pushing boundaries.
Aman, who starred in Bollywood's 2010 version of Brokeback Mountain, Dunno Y... Na Jaane Kyun (Don't Know Why), lost 12kg for the "age-appropriate" role in the film, which is about homosexuality.
During the IIFA Awards, though, Aman looked visibly old and tired.
But she said gracefully: "My two children inspire me to be who I am today. I do everything for them. "Longevity comes with experience. And I have a lot of it."
The stunning Sridevi, 48, also attended the awards ceremony.
Clad in a beautiful yellow sari, she was with her producer-husband, Boney Kapoor, 56.
Sridevi, who is actor Anil Kapoor's sister-in-law, isn't shaking off her career in the movies either.
She will be making her comeback in a new film, English Vinglish, in which Amitabh Bachchan, 69, has a special cameo role.
Other senior actresses who are also continuing to make their mark in an industry where youth and slender bodies are worshipped include Madhuri Dixit, 45, and Hema Malini, 63.
They are even ensuring their legacies continue through their children.
Azmi's stepchildren, Zoya Akhtar, 39, and Farhan Akhtar, 38, are both successful film-makers and known for breaking barriers in the film industry.
Malini's daughter, Esha Deol, 31, is an actress.
