Cast members: Louis Koo, Lau Ching Wan, Daniel Wu
A 2011 crime thriller film directed by Alan Mak and Felix Chong, Overhead 2 is the sequel to the 2009 film "Overheard". Though the characters from the first movie deal with different plot twists, in this one, the key elements are almost identical - suspense, action, and drama.
After a common traffic accident, Luo Minsheng, a noted securities dealer, discovers a hidden microphone in his car.
A policeman, He Zhiqiang who is in charge of this case, soon finds out that the person behind the wiretap is a veteran, Sima Nianzu. While investigating the case further, He Zhiqiang then uncovers a secret organization.
This secret organization has controlled the economic circumstances over the last 30 years, and Luo and Sima both have a subtle relationship with the organization.
Soon, other members of the organization find out they are also being wiretapped by the cunning Sima. Eager to get rid of this menace, they hire someone to murder Sima. Just before he dies, Sima is rescued by He Zhiqiang but slips through the policeman's hands.
Mr. Tong, an older member of the organization, soon finds out that all the members are threatened by Sima. He has to connect Sima, who threatens Tong to withdraw the stock 749 once owned by Sima's father from the market.
The organization members begin infighting, losing plenty of money in the process. All seems to be going according to Sima's plan. That is until Mr. Tong unintentionally reveals that he killed Sima's father. Sima goes mad and questions Tong angrily, who ends the argument by shooting Sima.
In the end, it turns out that Sima was behind the entire plot to ruin Mr Tong's organization. The whole secret organization is overthrown, and a large amount of money is obtained from the organization for donating to the retirement home where his mother and his father's old friends now live.
Its plot is skillfully designed, full of ups and downs. The movie has achieved high box office ratings and garnered a lot of praise. Justice, fairness, and responsibility are fully reflected in the movie, giving people hope to forge ahead.
