Two highly rated American dramas have made their way onto cable here, and here's the good news: They're both worth a look.
First up is Touch, the Tim Kring series that pulled Kiefer Sutherland back to TV.
Sutherland - famous for his role as a terrorism fighter in 24 - plays Martin Bohm, a New Yorker who must find a way to keep custody of his 11-year-old son, Jake.
Jake (David Mazouz) doesn't speak - though he serves as the show's narrator - and won't be touched ("You'll have to peel him off the ceiling," Martin says).
He does communicate, but through patterns and numbers. And what Martin finds is that through those numbers, his child is trying to connect disparate people and events across the globe.
Martin's job, as the first episode shows, is to interpret what his son is trying to communicate, and act on that.
In that episode, Jake leads him to a man dying of cancer, and gets Martin to extend a hand to someone in need.
In doing so, he changes the course of more than one life.
Kring, the maker of the four- season Heroes, is once again exploring special powers, this time through Jake.
And, while Touch lacks the comic-book, pulpy feel of Heroes, it has the same themes of destiny and evolving mankind.
The trouble is that there's also more than a hint of quasi-religious sensibilities that may turn some viewers off, what with golden sections and Fibonacci numbers and cosmic wheels and all.
But Sutherland, who said that his return to TV after 24 would be a long time coming, wouldn't lead us astray, would he? Touch comes a mere two years after 24 wrapped.
As Martin, whom we met for the first time on Sunday in the drama's premiere, Sutherland is a tad wound up. Hopefully, the plot will allow him to breathe a little, and grow out of the role of an anxious father into something much, much more.
The show is also on mio TV's On Demand channel.
Revenge, the gilded Hamptons drama whose fourth episode aired just last night, is not a story about forgiveness - as main character Emily Thorne (Everwood's Emily VanCamp) showed in the first episode.
VanCamp is sweet and ice- cold in turn as you learn that her character's real name is Amanda Clarke, who has returned to the Hamptons to exact revenge on those who brought about her father's downfall.
"For the innocent, the past may hold a reward," she says. "But, for the treacherous, it's only a matter of time before the past delivers what they truly deserve."
The woman that she wants to hurt most is Victoria Grayson (played excellently by Madeleine Stowe), the queen bee of the social scene and her father's former lover who helped frame him.
Amanda will take her time with that one, though we know through flash-forwards that she will manage to snag Victoria's beloved son, who will get shot - not by Amanda's hand - at their engagement party.
By now (check StarHub's website for constantly airing repeats to catch up on the show, or check out mio TV's On Demand channel), we know that Amanda did not lie - this is not a story of forgiveness, but rather of retribution, vengeance and brilliantly laid plans.
But it's also a story of making peace with the past.
In this, the Gossip Girl/Dynasty-like Revenge shares a common thread with Touch: Both shows seem intent on giving you a lesson as they entertain.
As Amanda will learn, bringing justice to those who wronged her father can also mean bringing misery to herself. Whether it's worth it is the catch.
While you wait to find out, the excellent cast and wicked games they play will keep you quite pleasantly occupied.
