President Benigno Aquino led the heartbroken Philippines in heaping praise on Thursday on a teenager of Filipino-Latino heritage, following her loss in the final of US talent show American Idol.
Millions of Filipinos watched Jessica Sanchez, 16, compete against eventual winner Phillip Phillips in the live broadcast on cable television, virtually bringing the karaoke-crazy country to a standstill.
Residents of Bataan province near Manila, where the teenager's mother traces her roots, went on an unauthorised Jessica Sanchez holiday, skipping school and work, said media reports.
"As she competed in American Idol, Jessica Sanchez obtained the loyal and enthusiastic support of Filipinos the world over," Mr Aquino's spokesman Abigail Valte said in a statement.
"This is only the beginning for Sanchez, whose incredible talent has been recognised and appreciated worldwide."
Filipinos at home and in the US have closely followed the Californian's path to the finals of the top-rated show, with hundreds of fan pages on Facebook devoted to her.
But the finale ended with guitar-strumming Phillip Phillips beating Sanchez on Wednesday (US time), after viewers cast a record 132 million votes.
Upset Filipinos vented their anger on Twitter and Facebook, with many saying the loss did not reflect ethnic diversity in the US, AFP reported.
Fanatics pointed out that winners of the hit TV show in the previous four seasons were all white men with guitars, and proclaimed Sanchez the "global idol".
Sanchez told Filipino TV channel ABS-CBN that she knew that Phillips would be this season's winner and that she is happy with the result.
She said: "That's why I gave him a big hug and that's why I was smiling the whole time."
Sanchez was bidding to become the first female Idol winner since Jordin Sparks won the contest in Season 6. Phillips is now the fifth male contestant in a row to win the popular US singing contest.
But Sanchez maintained that the 21-year-old musician from Georgia deserved to win.
"He deserved it. He's worked harder than all of us. We've all been working hard, but he's been having to keep up with his health issues, with his kidneys, and I think he's been through a lot more than us, mentally and physically."
Sanchez's mother, Editha, confirmed that her daughter is doing well despite the loss.
She said: "It was an amazing night. It didn't really matter to Jessica whether she won or came in second.
"She was just happy with what she has done, which is get to Top 2. That was more than she can ask for."
Mrs Sanchez also thanked fellow Filipinos for supporting her daughter.
She said: "I just want to thank you so much for all the support. Jessica does appreciate it. She's just overwhelmed with joy."
Mrs Sanchez also said she and her Idol daughter would want to visit the Philippines soon.
The mother added: "She's been asking about that. Hopefully we will soon, so she can learn about Filipinos and the country."
