There was a moment in The Dictator that really struck me.
The imperious Aladeen is working behind the counter of his lady friend Zoey's food collective, biding his time until he's able to reclaim his true identity as the dictator of Wadiya.
He has a pleasant exchange with one of the customers, a kindly middle-aged woman, and as she's walking away, she says: "Aren't you a nice man."
Aladeen gives her a sideways glare and hisses: "What the **** did you call me?"
The way Cohen delivers the line, it's as if the words are coming directly from him instead of the character.
There's obviously a lot of anger in Cohen - satire comes from an outraged place, and he's surely one of the most brilliant film satirists of our time.
Sometimes, Cohen can come across as an outright bully.
He seems to have no compunction over abasing his castmates - I mean, he has one of his actresses MILKED in The Dictator.
He licks Faris' hairy armpit.
There's a childbirth scene that is entirely beyond the pale.
Cohen revels in humiliation.
At the same time, it's hard not to like the guy, to feel that his casual cruelty serves some higher purpose.
But do the means justify the end?
Whatever the case, this raucous comedy undoubtedly entertains.
Cohen is a human banana peel.
Rating: 3.5/ 5 stars
Women should despise something as misogynistic as The Dictator, which is a hundred times more offensive and degrading to the fairer sex than Borat or Bruno.
Possibly desperate for post-Transformers work, Megan Fox has a cameo playing herself, an actress who provides sexual services to VIPs in exchange for goody bags stuffed with Rolexes.
Faris is also the target of all sorts of verbal abuse - "lesbian hobbit" comes to mind - and disrespectful treatment from Aladeen.
A pregnant woman who allows him to deliver her baby, ends up being violated in such a cheap way that it gives new meaning to "phoning it in".
But as grotesque, rude and outrageous as things get, you'll find yourself caught between grimaces and guffaws.
We all know there's no such thing as sacred cows in a Cohen movie, but the big surprise in The Dictator is that he's gone soft.
Unlike his earlier work, this one has a love story at its core - how a good woman turns the bad guy around.
But Cohen scratches only the surface of the romance. And after all is said and done, you may wonder if you've been cheated of a proper movie and given a collection of standalone skits instead.
Ultimately, the joke's on us.
Rating: 3/5 stars
THE CONSENSUS: The Dictator isn't your conventional date movie, but it may tickle your fancy if you're in the mood for politically incorrect low-brow laughs.
STARRING: Sacha Baron Cohen, Anna Faris, Ben Kingsley DIRECTOR: Larry Charles THE SKINNY: Admiral General Aladeen (Cohen), the dictator of Wadiya, falls victim to a plot which sees him replaced by his body double.
He hooks up with Brooklyn girl Zoey (Faris), who gives him a job in her food collective while he hatches a plan to reclaim his rightful place as ruler. Hijinks ensue!
RATING: M18
