Most K-drama fans will remember actor Kim Dong-wook as the bubbly waiter in MBC's 2007 hit drama series "Coffee Prince." The character was nothing but a happy brat who wouldn't take life too seriously.
Looking into his filmography, however, one realizes that Kim's prolific performance in his upcoming period thriller, "The Concubine," is no accident.
The 29-year-old's first role was the angry, impoverished teenager in director Byun Young-joo's 2004 drama "Flying Boys." In the 2008 sports flick "Take Off," he played a former night club bouncer who ends up being a member of Korea's national ski jump team. His characters always displayed nuanced depth and subtlety, thanks to Kim's distinctive ability to imbue each role with a different flair.
Kim is now awaiting the release of "The Concubine," in which he stars as a repressed prince who later becomes a puppet king ? under the control of an obsessive and domineering queen mother.
The movie has been creating media hype mainly for the explicit nude scenes of Kim's co-star Jo Yeo-jung, whose last film was also an erotic period drama ("The Servant," 2010). But the thriller, unveiled last week to the press, is in fact a riveting tale of obsessive desire, power struggle and murder ? showcasing almost Shakespearean psychological intricacy.
One of the finest achievements of the film is Kim's engrossing performance as the tormented Prince Seong-won, who gradually loses his sense of judgment and emotional control. Following is a Q&amp;A with the versatile actor, who confessed that playing the character was such an ordeal that he wanted to "run away from the set" a number of times.
A: On top of everything else, I felt enormously sorry for the guy. Before meeting Hwa-yeon (played by Jo Yeo-jung), who later becomes the object of his almost-lunatic obsession, he had never been loved by anyone. He had never been in love. This is a guy who is forced to live a life that he has no interest in. He is repressed in every possible way, and never gets anything he wants. And in spite of all that, ironically, he becomes the king. While feeling sorry for him, I also found the complexity of the character fascinating. That's what drew me in.
A: Well, I've been in love as well ? the similar kind of love that Seong-won feels for Hwa-yeon. It was intense and obsessive. I was so absorbed by my own feelings that I couldn't hear what everyone else was saying. I didn't know why I was the way I was, and could not help but keep expressing my feelings. I think that's how Seong-won felt, too, when he first discovered he was in love.
A: I honestly don't know how far I would go. But I do understand Hwa-yeon and her evolution into such a merciless individual. Not only does she have to protect her own life, she also has to protect her son. She lost her father and the man she was in love with. This is the woman who lost so much, and is eager to protect what she has left. So I find the decisions she makes convincing.
A: Much of Seong-won's obsessive and irrational behavior is in fact due to his relationship with his mother. The queen mother actually loves him very much ? in the way she thinks is the right way of loving him. And of course, her "love" only causes him pain and distress. Until he meets Hwa-yeon, the only form of love he knows consists of enduring enormous pressure and trying not to disappoint the other. So his world is turned upside down when he forms feelings for someone aside from his mother, for the first time in his life. He is forced to break away from the world he once belongs to. Director Kim Dai-seung once said Seong-won in fact is seeking what he never received from his mother in Hwa-yeon, and that's why he becomes so obsessive later on. It's almost like Oedipus complex ? he's never had a father figure in his life, and survived the throes of death with his mother alone when he was a little kid.
A: That is why I'd like as many people as possible to see this film. The way it is being promoted represents only a small fraction of what this piece is all about. I'm more than ready to accept the responses of my viewers as long as they actually see the film. And I am confident that most of them wouldn't be able to say, 'Oh, there is no difference between the actual film and how it's been promoted.'
A: No character was ever easy for me to play to begin with. The only character that I genuinely enjoyed playing was, in spite of the enormous physical challenge, the ski jumper in the "Take Off." Right now I'm really up for any happy character. I guess it's because I just finished "The Concubine" and playing such an intense role.
