GEORGE TOWN, Malaysia - Malaysians should watch more Tan Sri P. Ramlee's movies as the legendary actor's shows are a true reflection of what encompasses the 1Malaysia spirit, said National Archives of Malaysia director-general Daresah Ismail.
She said the movies were unique as they included national integration values which are still relevant today.
"Ramlee was truly great, as he transcended geographical, cultural and political aspects of this country," she said, adding the youth of today could learn a thing or two as all of his movies contained good moral values with hidden lessons.
Daresah gave an example of one of his movies, Sesudah Subuh (1967) which highlighted the complexities of race relations in a country which was relatively new at that time.
"It was truly the first 'Malaysian' film as it had Malay, Chinese, Indian, Sikh actors, making it a truly 1Malaysia film."
She cited another movie, Gerimis (1968) which centred on an inter-racial marriage and showed a deep loving relationship which transcended race and religion.
She was speaking at the opening of the "P. Ramlee in Memory" and National Artistes' Day 2012 celebrations here by the Yang diPertua Negeri Tun Abdul Rahman Abbas yesterday.
Also present was Rahman's wife, Toh Puan Majimor Shariff.
Daresah urged the public to donate materials related to Ramlee to the archives as it was part of the Malaysian entertainment industry.
"Those who can bring any items -- such as old magazines, posters, records or other materials -- will contribute to the P. Ramlee museum."
She added that the archives could also buy the memorabilia items from the public.
After the opening, a forum titled "1Malaysia thinking in Tan Sri P. Ramlee's films" was held.
The speakers included Ramlee's best friend, Datuk Aziz Sattar, and early Malaysian film industry and Ramlee expert Dr Mahyuddin Ahmad.
Aziz, 87, was in tears as he told the audience in the auditorium about how he met Ramlee and got into show business.
"I remember everything like it was yesterday, he will be sorely missed," Aziz said, bursting into tears.
Outside the movie set, Ramlee was known to be the friendliest person, Aziz recalled, adding that despite his fame, he would stop in his tracks to chat with the local folks wherever he was.
"He would stop to talk to everyone. I remember the time I was following him for a walk somewhere, and he stopped to talk to a beca (rickshaw) puller for 30 minutes."
Aziz said Ramlee always mixed around with people of all races.
One of his best friends was the late Kwek Chip Jian, the manager of the now defunct Malay Filem Productions Studio.
"Ramlee is a multi talented man and embraced all people regardless of race, we should follow in his footsteps," said Aziz.
Ramlee died on May 27, 1973, at the age of 44 from a heart attack.
During his career, Ramlee directed and acted in 66 films, and had more than 360 songs to his credit.
