SHOCK. Heartache. Fury.
That is what any parent would feel if someone slapped their child in public.
Based on the best-selling novel by Christos Tsiolkas, this drama examines the convoluted emotions surrounding a spur- of-the-moment incident.
It looks closely at the aftermath and reactions of those involved when a man, Harry (played by Alex Dimitriades), slaps a toddler during a barbecue to celebrate the 40th birthday of his cousin, Hector (Jonathan LaPaglia). This provocative and unsettling Australian mini-series will make you question the rights of parents as well as the moral values of the middle class.
It suggests that, disturbing though it may be, there are grey areas in any situation, and that right and wrong are one-dimensional values in a highly complicated society.
For instance, the mother of the slapped child, Rosie (Melissa George), is an overprotective lioness who pampers her ill- mannered son and breastfeeds him whenever he throws a tantrum (which happens often).
The "slapper" is admittedly hotheaded and arrogant, but it's clear that he (spoiler alert!) hit the kid to protect his own family - the child in question had been waving a baseball bat around, posing a danger to others.
Was Harry right or wrong? You decide.
The show also looks at the tensions between the genders, in particular, with the women banding together out of loyalty to condemn the act, while the men try to dismiss it.
It also brings to mind the battle between different schools of thought - is hitting a child who is misbehaving considered abuse? Is it more abhorrent if it is someone other than the parent striking him?
And what about the constant criticism that the West has of Asian cultures, that our system of tough love and caning is tantamount to child abuse, in comparison to explaining to a child why his actions were wrong?
While the title of the show is hardly creative, what is interesting is that the eight-part series features the perspective of a different character in every episode, giving an insight into the character's complicated life.
The lives of the middle class are explored, hooking the viewer. I, for one, was intrigued by the secrets each character holds and how their stories pan out after the dramatic slap.
A torrid affair between a 40-year-old man and a 17-year-old babysitter, a mistress, a gay teenager's crush - these are just some of the skeletons the show unearths.
The actors are a stellar bunch too, with enough emotional depth to present this sombre series and its differing viewpoints convincingly.
The one to note in particular is Dimitriades, whose smooth tough-guy persona and intense eyes - with flashes of anger - can send shivers down your spine.
It's no wonder the show swept a whole slew of awards at last year's Australian Academy of Cinema and Television Arts Award, including Best Telefeature, Mini Series or Short Run Series, Best Actor in a Drama (Dimitriades), Best Director and Best Screenplay.
The series is not a lighthearted or frivolous watch, to be sure, but one that is bound to strike you hard and make you reflect for days.
You have been warned.
