Thanks to Google Plus Hangouts, she can bring her cheerful voice and infectious smile to people from all corners of the world.
Hangouts is a free-to-use video-conferencing feature of nascent social network Google Plus that allows multiple users to have a two-way webchat on computers and smartphones.
Because of it, US indie singer Daria Musk has graduated from bedroom musician to being its first international performer.
The 24-year-old, who has harboured aspirations of being a musician since she was a child, told LOUD on Google Plus Hangouts: "I felt like I never really belonged in the 'traditional' music scene.
"I didn't get the level of feedback I wanted from the music videos I'd posted on YouTube.
"I also feel that YouTube videos are simply recorded, static moments in time. With Hangouts, I get to create music live in real time and my audience is practically on stage with me."
In a Hangouts webchat, participants are able to observe a selected individual in the main "window", while other participants are displayed in a row of smaller windows at the bottom of the screen.
Musk has held many Hangouts "concerts" thus far, with her most recent performance two weeks ago set against the New York City skyline, broadcast live by US telecommunications giant Verizon on its 4G Long Term Evolution wireless network.
She said: "After one music gig when I got absolutely rain-soaked, my younger brother told me about Hangouts.
I figured I'd just start an account, perform in front of my webcam and see who turned up to watch.
"I have no idea how, but the word spread really fast. In no time, people from as far as Buenos Aires and Norway joined my Hangouts concert. My first performance (in July last year) eventually lasted for 61/2 hours."
She describes her music as incorporating elements of pop, rock and world music in an upbeat manner.
She said: "I now perform in front of live audiences in Los Angeles, New York and Chicago with a giant Hangouts screen behind me (during my performances), which is like having a 360 'music circle'.
"I've met so many different people from all walks of life, and thanks to Hangouts, it's much easier to forge a connection with people halfway across the world."
One person Musk said she had inspired was a bedridden man named Imran from Lancaster, UK, who had tuned in to her first Hangouts performance.
She said: "Imran told me he had been feeling too weak to move on his own for two years, but after hearing my (debut) single You Move Me, he got the inspiration to get out of bed and walk around!"
And though Musk, who is single, is now focused on building her musical career, she is not ruling out finding love through Hangouts.
She said: "I must say, there's no barrier to international love. I'd like someone who's industrious, someone who's aware of global issues and who makes giving back to society a priority."
