You could have heard a pin drop.
That was the power Olivia Newton-John had over her audience at the Arena Of Stars last Thursday night with her curtain raiser Pearls On A Chain, written by herself and Amy Sky, a Canadian singer and song writer in 2006.
Taken from her Grace And Gratitude album and based on the First Chakra, Sacred Truth: All Is One, the 64-year-old English-Australian performer touched all with the opening lines, "Every living thing on this earth has a heart. Every little thing that I am, so you are".
Hailed as a National Living Treasure by Australia, Newton-John had mesmerised all into an awe-struck silence when she sang the same number in 2008 at Sydney's State Theatre during the Olivia Newton-John and Friends Gala Concert to raise funds for her cancer and wellness centre.
Little surprise, that the response would be similar here.
Enveloping every single word with her honey-coated vocals, it was as if Newton-John was speaking personally to each and everyone in the packed arena.
About her life. Her joys. Her fears. And how each challenge can be overcome, if only you will set your mind to it.
And like her crystal clear voice, Newton-John was honest about her brush with breast cancer by openly admitting she was diagnosed with the disease 20 years ago.
This came at the same time when she was about to embark on a publicity tour for her third hits collection, Back To Basics - The Essential Collection 1971-1992, her first project since her Physical album 10 years earlier.
All that was put on hold as she battled her ailment.
"After the treatment, I kept waking up in the middle of the night, feeling afraid and alone. That was when I made up my mind that I was never ever going to give in to it (the cancer)," said Newton-John, addressing the audience.
Needless to say, the performance from this four-time Grammy Award winner was nothing short of fantastic!
Sitting at the front row was Ummi Hafilda Ali, businesswoman and Puteri UMNO member.
Ummi became a fan of Newton-John after watching Grease in 1978.
Though she does not know the singer personally, Newton-John's pleasant interaction with the audience gave Ummi the impression that she is full of love and sincerity.
"To perform like this, you need to have an inner strength, one that comes from deep within," opined Ummi.
Reflecting on Newton-John's life achievements, which includes a humanitarian award from Red Cross and her appointment as goodwill ambassador by the United Nations, Ummi summed up Newton-John as an amazing performer who is still as energetic as when she was 20.
"I feel that I have an affinity with her. If you look at our initials, hers is O.N.J while mine is O.K.B." pointed out Oh, 58, bringing to attention that both their names start with the same letter.
For Samri Badi, being at the concert could be likened to revisiting an old friend. The MediaCorp producer, who confessed to have "fallen in love" with Newton-John after watching her play the sexy spandex-clad Sandy in Grease, had come all the way from Singapore.
"We practically grew up together. And after all these years, she is still so beautiful and her voice is just as unique and evergreen," said Samri, 65, wistfully.
But the one that had the most fun that night was Newton-John herself. Despite her star status, she gave the atmosphere a homely feel and proved to all and sundry that no matter how famous or beautiful, women will fib about their age.
"I've been recording for 40 years, so that means I started in kindergarten," jested Newton-John in between songs.
From the time she gathered her back-up singers and musicians to cajole the audience to sing along to the country and western classic Country Roads and donned a leather jacket to render a few numbers from Grease, the hit musical which made her a household name, she had everyone in the palm of her well-manicured hands.
In a moment of cheekiness, she brought on the titters by revealing that "kissing" John Travolta was a drag.
At the end of the show, when Newton-John was asked what had driven her to be what she is today, there wasn't going to be a rehearsed PR-style answer from this blonde nightingale.
Despite being surrounded by a chaotic crowd of minders and autograph hungry fans, Newton-John brought her hands to her face.
"Wow! That is a big question indeed," she exclaimed.
After the crowd had cleared, she came to this writer, looked straight into her eyes and said simply, "I am grateful I can still have fun. I hope that answers your question."
With that, she offered this writer a firm handshake, said thank you and bade farewell, leaving a lingering tingle that will no doubt, last a lifetime.
