KLANG - Award-winning Tamil actress Sneha, of Tamil Nadu, is keen to act in a Malaysian movie and has received numerous offers from local filmmakers here.
The 30-year-old star, who recently opened the RM Silk Sarees Palace in Jalan Tengku Kelana, near here, said she always kept her options open to act in foreign films, but never had the chance so far.
"I've received many offers, but I declined most of them. If the script is good and the role is right, I will give them serious consideration."
The Mumbai-born actress, whose real name is Suhasini Rajaram, and known for her girl-next-door image and sparkling smile, shot to fame after acting in hit film Aanandham.
Sneha started her career in 2001 when she played a supporting role in Ingane Oru Nilapakshi, a Malayalam movie, and got her big break later in the same year when she starred in Ennavale.
She ended the year with an undertaking in Telugu cinema, appearing in two films. Her initial Telugu movie was Priyamaina Neeku, which was a runaway success.
In 2002, Sneha won the Best Actress Award for her performances in Punnagai Desam, Aanandham, Virumbugiren and Pirivom Santhippom. She also received a Nandi Award for Radha Gopalam and two Best Supporting Actress Filmfare Award for her roles in Autograph and Unnai Ninaithu.
"I've always enjoyed coming to Malaysia, whether it is for a shoot or vacation. The fact that I have a strong fan base here excites me and I am very thankful for it."
Hundreds of local fans gathered at RM Silk Sarees Palace two hours before her scheduled arrival.
As the Kollywood actress prepares for her wedding with fellow actor and co-star Prasanna in Porur, Chennai, next month, Sneha is kept busy with commercial appearances in India.
The actress is a spokesmodel for various local and international brands, such as Dabur Amla Nelli Hair Oil, Shree Devi Textiles, Saravana Stores and Horlicks.
She has also appeared in numerous fashion shows, including the Chennai International Fashion Week and Sydney Sladen Fashion Week.
Sneha said she was so busy with commitments that she had yet to pick a suitable saree for her wedding.
"I have been going through the various designs during my spare time and I still have not decided. I might just pick one from here."
Sneha said she was currently filming Haridas, a movie about an 8-year-old boy's view of life and his father. The film is expected to be released by year end.
