For current Hollywood it-guy, Taylor Kitsch, who is still reeling from the dismal takings of his mega-budget box-office dud, John Carter, the latest film he is starring in may prove to be a redeeming ray of light.
It's not that Battleship is a better film. But its fast-paced action sequences, fuelled by high-tech machine effects tailored for Transformers fans, should at least ensure better ticket sales.
Incidentally, Battleship is, like Michael Bay's successful Transformers movie franchise, based on a Hasbro product (through Hasbro's Milton Bradley subsidiary, in this instance).
Later developed into a board game and an electronic version, it started off as a two-player pencil-and-paper guessing game involving attempts to sink an opponent's naval ships.
Around this very sketchy story idea, writers Jon and Erich Hoeber (who collaborated previously on 2010's Red) weave a blockbuster thriller directed by Peter Berg (Hancock).
The result comes across as a science fiction-laden version of Top Gun focusing more on naval warfare than aviation dogfights.
And, yes, you can expect stirring American patriotism, as the movie shows, once again, that the United States will save the world from alien annihilation.
The aliens, in this case, are summoned by high-powered signals transmitted from Earth to probe for extra-terrestrial life forms. Unfortunately, they are not the least bit friendly, leading to fierce confrontations with US battleships out at sea on a naval exercise.
You'd think that the odds weigh heavily in the aliens' favour, but the Americans put up a counter-attack thanks to the brilliance of Lieutenant Alex Hopper's tactical mind. Call it an extreme example of grace under pressure, because Alex (played by Kitsch) is notorious as an underachieving naval officer always getting into trouble.
You'll find a token "big brother" in the form of commanding officer, Stone (Alexander Skarsgard), always urging Alex to mend his ways; Alex's token hot fiancee Sam played by Brooklyn Decker; and the token veteran actor Liam Neeson, who decides to make some money between real acting jobs by playing Sam's father, Admiral Shane.
While there are explosive thrills in terms of the mankind- versus-aliens battles, the storyline follows a well-trotted Hollywood formula with very few surprises in store. There is some publicity over singer Rihanna's debut in a feature film, but her role as Petty Officer Raikes and Alex's crewmate is hardly memorable.
The aliens' advanced weaponry, which includes rotating spheres that slice through anything in their paths, is nice to look at, but also makes it harder for us to suspend our disbelief as our American heroes, through strong will and slow-motion swagger, triumph over the aliens' far superior firepower.
Sure, you want to cheer for a crippled American soldier with artificial limbs (real-life military officer and amputee Gregory D. Gadson) as he beats up an armoured alien warrior. But I have to say that Battleship is every bit a fantasy as it is science fiction.
