Time, it is often said, can heal all wounds. But it can also take its toll on relationships, as the members of American alternative-rock band Train can attest to.
In fact, drummer Scott Underwood likens their 18-year career to matrimony, with all its ups and downs, trials and tribulations.
On the line with my paper from Sydney, Australia, where the band were on tour last week, he said: "It's almost like we are in a marriage that had a really difficult rough patch...we're afraid it might come back."
He added: "But maybe that fear is good, because it keeps us all close and appreciative (of what we have)."
Underwood, 38, was referring to the three-year hiatus the San Francisco quintet chose to take in 2006, after their fourth album - For Me, It's You - tanked, and a couple of band members had quit.
Train, which will play its first full-length Singapore show on Sunday, now operates as a trio, with two other founding members, frontman Pat Monahan, 43, and guitarist Jimmy Stafford, 48.
The band played here previously at a SingTel event last December, and Sunday's show is almost at "full house" status, according to organiser LAMC Productions.
Of the darker times, Underwood admitted: "We were barely talking to each other any more as a band, and just not getting along at all...Pat and I, in particular, were just like enemies. I didn't think we were going to get back together."
But time has indeed worked its magic, and, after band members realised how they missed each other (warts and all), the band - which hit the big time with Grammy-winning second album, Drops Of Jupiter, in 2001 - reformed.
Today, they're stronger than ever, if chart success is anything to go by.
Train's fifth album, Save Me, San Francisco (2009), has spawned massive hits in songs like Hey, Soul Sister (which earned the band a Grammy last year) and Marry Me.
Its follow-up, California 37, which dropped in April, peaked at No. 2 on the Billboard 200 charts in the United States, making it their highest-charting album there.
It's a comeback to remember, but that, too, comes with its pressures.
"What we were thinking was 'We'll never top Hey, Soul Sister' because it just took off and had its own life," Underwood said when asked if Train is being pressed to keep the momentum going.
"But (people) said the same thing after Drops Of Jupiter, so you just never know...it was more important for us to just give it our all."
As for the current relationship between Underwood, Stafford and Monahan, the laidback dude said that they are "best friends" again.
"We've healed and we've grown up and we now know that (being in the band) is really a precious blessing," he added.
Better still, this newfound enthusiasm for their craft, and for their friendship, has translated onto the stage, too.
Which means those attending Sunday's show can expect "a better band than we've ever been", according to Underwood.
"Every show we do is really fun and important to us...just the fact that people care and want to come see us play still freaks us out," he added with a chuckle.
vbarker@sph.com.sg
Catch Train on Sunday at Marina Bay Sands' Grand Theatre at 8pm. Tickets from $98 to $168 are available through Sistic - www.sistic.com.sg or tel: 6348-5555.
