Even though he was in the iconic City of Canals, celebrity hairstylist David Gan was more interested in people-watching than viewing the scenery.
The Malaysia-born Gan made his first trip to Venice in 2010 to work his hairdressing magic on celebrities from China for a red carpet event.
But he still found time to indulge in his favourite form of relaxation in the Italian city - slowly savouring a sumptuous continental breakfast at his waterfront hotel while watching the world go by.
Gan, who is in his late 40s, told The New Paper: "It was very calming sitting in an alfresco setting and people-watching. I did feel a bit lonely at times watching the couples, especially since there were so many of them acting all romantic.
"At least the food in Venice is very good.
"You can't resist a breakfast spread that includes eggs over easy, buttery croissants and fresh fruit, which is really something - considering I normally always have Chinese cuisine."
Gan said he also enjoyed chatting with the other hairstylists and celebrities involved in the event, who were all very friendly.
He said: "In fact, because my luggage was left behind in Paris while flying to Venice, I was left with no hairstyling equipment for the first night, which almost left me at my wits' end.
"I managed to borrow some equipment from a very nice stylist from Hong Kong, who was more than glad to loan me his equipment."
Time of year
Gan added that one's experience of Venice is dependent on the time of year.
"Luckily I went during the late summer period, when it wasn't as hot and the glare from the water wasn't as bad on the eyes.
"I think I'll always be a very Chinese person at heart, in that I don't enjoy extreme temperatures. I've also heard that during winter, Venice can be frigid.
"It's very hard to find toilets in Venice, especially if it's cold. We're very pampered in Singapore that way," he said, jokingly.
The thing that warmed Gan's heart the most was hunting for crystalware.
"I love buying crystal, which can range from small knick-knacks to huge chandeliers.
"In fact, I bought a nice chandelier in Venice and had it shipped home. My home is now overflowing with crystal chandeliers," he said.
To the hairstylist, fashion shopping is educational because he gets to learn much about a country from what's on sale.
But, he added, the city's retail wares didn't meet his standard.
"In Venice, and in Europe in general, you can get the past-season's clothing at the factory outlets, where people are always queueing because of the discounts.
"I'm definitely not that sort of person (to go for past-season's fashion). The factory outlets in Venice were also quite messy and disorganised, but I think the buyers didn't care at all about the layout (of the outlets) or presentation."
Gan also took pride on being able to skilfully navigate the winding streets of Venice on foot, instead of relying on the famous gondolas.
"I did make a wrong turn on my first night there and got lost for a bit, but after that I never got lost again.
"People often think that Venice is all canals, but it's actually very easy to get around by walking because the entire city is well-linked by bridges.
"It's not all that hard to navigate as long as you follow a map, which was helpfully provided by my hotel."
Despite his fond memories of Venice, Gan is not planning on returning any time soon.
He said: "Venice is the kind of place where you can see all you want in a single trip.
"It's also a place for two main kinds of tourists: Couples looking for a romantic getaway and older people who are in Venice because they want to visit it at least once in their lifetime."
DID YOU KNOW
The slow sinking of Venice and the simultaneous rise in sea levels means that on average, the city is effectively being submerged at the rate of 4mm a year.
The Mose project - "Mose" is also Italian for the biblical prophet Moses, who parted the Red Sea - is intended to combat this with giant inflatable barriers designed to keep the rising waters of the Adriatic sea at bay.
It is scheduled to become operational in 2014.
