While I am a fan of the Iron Man movie franchise, I wasn't too impressed with the big-screen adaptation of the Thor superhero tale.
So, when it comes to The Avengers - a Hollywood blockbuster that gathers Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr), Thor (Chris Hemsworth) and other comic-book heroes like Captain America (Chris Evans) and the Incredible Hulk (Mark Ruffalo, taking over from Edward Norton) - it is, to my mind, hard to predict what the end result might be.
Fortunately, writer-director Joss Whedon (creator of the Buffy The Vampire Slayer TV series) holds everything together well, with Loki (Tom Hiddleston) as the main super-villain.
Yes, Loki is the adopted brother of Thor, whom you already would have met in last year's Thor film. His evil plan is to open a wormhole between his world and Earth, so that dark forces from Asgard can pass through to attack New York City.
In the face of the catastrophic destruction of humankind, Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) - who is director of the secretive military organisation S.H.I.E.L.D. - decides to re-activate his Avengers initiative and assemble his line-up of heroes to take on Loki.
Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson), last seen in Iron Man 2 (2010), where she impressed the audience with her flying kicks and dexterous fighting moves, gets a bigger play in story development.
This S.H.I.E.L.D. operative also provides a link to new character Hawkeye (Jeremy Renner), who gets lured by Loki from Nick's employment to the dark side.
We also see a little more of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Agent Phil Coulson (Clark Gregg), who had fleeting appearances in the Iron Man and Thor movies.
Hiddleston gets a good amount of screen time as well.
He holds his ground against the bigger stars whom he has to rub shoulders with, playing Loki with much menace but laced with a hint of Shakespearean flair.
Still, some additional help from other baddies would have helped to up the evil factor in the face of so many superheroes.
Or, at least, more light could be shed on the unholy army of alienlike creatures that he is inducting from his realm to Earth.
The interesting thing about the story is that it brings across, often through the use of humour, the different personalities and human flaws of the various superheroes involved - a window of opportunity that Loki is quick to tap on, playing mind games and sowing discord among them.
As Hollywood norms dictate, you'd need a climax that brings the house down in a blockbuster like this. And what a storm this film whips up, with skyscrapers tumbling down amid large-scale destruction across battlefield NYC, as the Avengers battle it out with Loki and his sinister army on flying machines.
Watch how the Incredible Hulk, who emerges as a fan favourite by the ending, stirs excitement through his animalistic fury and sheer brute force, rampaging through the city in a more terrifying manner than the evil intruders themselves.
Here's a popcorn movie at its best, with some intellect thrown in for a pleasant aftertaste.
myp@sph.com.sg
