He may love his tech toys, but he's not a stickler for the details.
913 DJ Gerald Koh (aka Boy Thunder) admitted that he has never really looked under the hood of his various gadgets.
The 27-year-old told The New Paper: "My gadgets must not have a steep learning curve and must be easy to use on a day-to-day basis.
"When I need a certain tech tool, I'll usually get recommendations from my friends as to what device they like to use."
Koh, who said he was quite "sporty" in the past, now finds that playing games on his Xbox 360 with the Kinect is an acceptable substitute for working up a sweat.
He said: "I used to work out a lot, for example, wakeboarding on a regular basis.
"But now, as a radio DJ, finding time to hit the gym is mostly out of the question due to work commitments.
"My girlfriend (of two years) and I have done lots of 'game workouts', and sometimes, even my dad will join in."
And one game that helps him achieve a full body workout on the Kinect is the 2011 oddball Raving Rabbids: Alive &amp; Kicking, published by game developer Ubisoft.
Said Koh: "You have to 'step' on crazy bunnies which are constantly moving around.
"It's a lot like playing Twister on a screen, requiring all sorts of body contortions.
"It's also very family-friendly and very fun. It's easy to pick up and to put down, which is good so that I don't get too addicted to it," he said, laughing.
Koh uses his MacBook Pro primarily to write on his blog (www.boythunder.com), especially about celebrities he has met, such as UK boy band One Direction, and also to edit photos using the iPhoto application.
The Ngee Ann Polytechnic mass communication graduate said that after having used an iBook laptop for his course, he's naturally at home with Apple computers.
"I'm quite a sucker for good marketing," he said with a guffaw.
"The Beats headphones series is really advertised well. (And) the overall sound quality of the Beats Studio (headphones) is quite good.
"As DJs, we have to constantly monitor our voices on-air, and the clarity of human voices on the Beats headphones is something you can't quite find on other headphones."
Koh, who describes himself as a "very amateur" photographer, uses his Nikon D5100 for a variety of shoots.
He said: "My D5100, with its AF-S 18-55mm VR lens, is great for taking pictures while on holiday.
"When I visited Orlando, Florida in February last year, I realised that a simple point-and-shoot camera just doesn't cut it when it comes to picture quality. I got my Nikon shortly thereafter.
"I also use my (additional) Nikon Sigma 70-300mm APO DG lens for shooting landmarks from afar, while my AF-S Nikkor 50mm lens has great macro for shooting things close-up to post on my blog."
