BY NOW, the name Cesar Millan is practically a household name.
The 42-year-old has made his name as The Dog Whisperer on a hit TV show, in which he "rehabilitates dogs, and trains people".
This means Mexico-born Millan helps dog owners with problems they see in their pets, from obsession to aggression and anxiety.
However, he says that it's usually the owners who need more help. People don't understand that dogs don't just need love, he explains. They need a "pack leader" who holds them to rules, boundaries and limitations.
Millan is a former illegal immigrant in the United States who got his big break from actress Jada Pinkett Smith, and who has gone on to work with celebrities like Oprah Winfrey.
The Los Angeles-based dog expert, who is filming Season 9 of The Dog Whisperer (Season 5 is airing on National Geographic Channel here), will visit Singapore in June to run a seminar at Marina Bay Sands.
He sat down to chat with my paper over the phone about his show, as well as about problems that Singaporean dog owners face, and how they can be addressed.
I'm working with three dogs that are very aggressive. This is exciting because my son, Calvin, who's 13, is helping me rehabilitate two of them.
My kids have been around dogs from the moment they were born - you could say they were raised by the pack. Calvin rehabilitated his first dog, Coco, when he was five years old. Last year, he declared that he wants to be the "Puppy Whisperer".
He takes it very seriously. He has been talking to my managers, telling them that they have to give him a TV show!
I was wondering what issues you guys in Singapore have with your dogs.
Barking is communication. But when we talk about annoying, excessive barking, what we have is a dog that is frustrated and bored because the human is not fulfilling its needs.
Exercise with structure is what's needed. This means not just letting the dog out in the yard to have it run around, or throwing a ball around and letting it chase it. That's not exercise.
Exercise with structure is a walk. Twice a day, at least 45 minutes to an hour at a time. Aim to walk your dog next to you. You walk the dog in front of you, and you'll have problems.
No, what is cruel is not fulfilling its needs. It's cruel to give a dog affection, affection, affection.
It should be exercise, discipline, then affection. Work on the fundamentals, and you'll get to see the true spirit of your dog.
Dogs need to work for food, water and your attention. Don't worry - they enjoy working for things.
In Los Angeles, dog walkers take the dog for walks. Guess who the dog likes most? The dog walker! It's the same thing as hiring a nanny for your kid. Guess who the kid is going to be attached to? I understand that people are busy. But this is about commitment. Ask yourself, what are your priorities?
Compatibility, first. Put emotions aside, put aside intellectual considerations, like what dog is most beautiful or what breed is best. Make sure you're not looking for a "soulmate".
Instead, ask yourself if the dog's energy is compatible with yours. There's four levels of energy - low, medium, high and very high. Pay attention to this. If a dog has more energy than you, there will be trouble ahead.
Then, think about what the dog's needs are. The answer is, exercise, discipline, and then affection. Start practising this as soon as you sign the papers. Don't go into the whole affection thing, hugging the dog, trying to win its heart first.
Let it know what the rules, boundaries and limitations are. That way, the dog has a sense of direction. That will take a load off its shoulders. The dog will feel like it belongs.
To me, a dog is a vehicle. You can put people of different religions - a Christian, a Catholic, a Jewish person - together, then throw a dog into the room. They won't be arguing - they'll be talking about the dog.
Dogs can create communication. Communication brings about the ability to have a relationship. My show shows dogs with aggression, fear and anxiety. That's created by humans. A dog is just mirroring the energy of the environment it lives in. I hope that my show can present what we are creating, and what we can create in our world.
You're right, my show isn't just about dealing with dogs, it is about showing people how we live our lives.
