The bitter feud between Azura movie star Neelofa and Anzalna, lead actress in the upcoming movie Sepah, may be polarising all those following the drama, but a third starlet initially named in another kerfuffle with Neelofa is steering clear of the whole debacle.
Tasha Shilla, voted Best New Artiste at the Anugerah Bintang Popular two months ago, was apparently the subject of a bitter comment by Neelofa, who was also up for the award. After her loss to Tasha, Neelofa allegedly posted her thoughts on Twitter, saying she didn't think Tasha deserved to win.
In an interview with Daily Chilli, Tasha admitted she hadn't seen the tweet and only read out about it in the press. And for that matter, she hasn't spoken with Neelofa about her supposed statements. Still, she insists she doesn't have a problem with Neelofa.
"Fights and arguments are normal in life, not just among girls but boys, too," said the 25-year-old starlet, adding that this was her first encounter with a problem like this so early in her career. "It's a bitter part of the celebrity world."
Despite her rumoured rift with Neelofa, she refuses to weigh in on the pending defamation lawsuit between former Dewi Remaja 2010 rivals Neelofa and Anzalna. "Regarding their spat, I don't want to get involved. I don't have any problem with anyone," she said.
It's been eight days since Neelofa's lawyers sent a Notice Of Demand to Anzalna, threatening to slap her with a defamation lawsuit over comments she made to the press about their client. Calls by Daily Chilli to the law firm were unanswered.
Tasha also avoided answering any questions about Neelofa's acting skills, although she confessed that she wouldn't turn down a professional working collaboration between them. "I wouldn't mind starring opposite her in a film. If it's a good script, why not?"
Meanwhile, she has just finished filming her part in the TV drama Rania Sri Puteri Duyung and is currently shooting a series of Hari Raya programmes including one called Ketuk-Ketuk Ramadan.
She'll also play tour guide to 30 fans on an eight-day vacation to Amsterdam in September. The package trip is being offered by Air France/KLM, in conjunction of the Netherlands Flower Exposition which happens every 10 years. "We'll visit tourist spots, tulip fields, cheese farms and historical sites. I'm looking forward to an enjoyable time," she said.
