If the role of police special investigation unit chief Yeo Ji Hoon in Korean crime drama Ten seems a tad familiar, don't be too surprised.
Korean actor Joo Sang Wook, who brings the cool cop to life on the small screen, readily admits that he drew inspiration for his character from a bevy of sources.
And these included US crime series CSI and Criminal Minds, as well as actor Takuya Kimura's one-time dramatic performance in the Japanese TV series, One Million Stars Falling From The Sky.
"Prior to filming, I spoke at length with our producers about how we should craft Yeo's image and personality," Joo, 33, told The New Paper in an e-mail interview.
"As part of my research, I also went through several American and Japanese movies and TV shows." One Million Stars Falling From The Sky struck a chord.
"It was aired about 10 years ago and was very successful in Japan," Joo recalled."Kimura's character in the series reminded me a lot of Yeo Ji Hoon."
But the storylines of Ten and One Million Stars Falling From The Sky do not bear much resemblance.
In Ten, which airs on Thursdays at 10pm on KIX (StarHub Ch 518) and KIX HD (Sing- Tel mio TV Ch 54), maverick top cop Yeo leads a team - played by an ensemble cast including Jo An, Kim Sang Ho and Choi Woo Sik - to track down Korea's most notorious killers.
The drama series is in the vein of CSI and Criminal Minds, whereas One Million Stars Falling From TheSky was a depressing, somewhat bizarre mystery piece which featured Kimura as a womanising chef.
Joo, whom local audiences will remember from his roles in popular Korean dramas, The Great Queen Seon Deok (2009), Giant (2010) and The Thorn Birds (2011), professes to being a fan of the crime genre.
"I enjoy criminal investigation TV series like CSI because they boast high production values," he said. "They make viewers curious as to what will happen next. It's like, audiences can participate in the crime-solving and investigation processes, too."
The suave bachelor added that while he had fun filming Ten, his reel and real-life selves are worlds apart.
"If I were like Yeo, I would not get along with people at all. He is very selfish and thinks only about himself and his cases," he said.
"A perpetually serious man, he likes to frown whenever he is concentrating.
"My personality is so different from his. Wherever I go, I always try to create a cheerful atmosphere."
Joo is looking forward to reuniting with his castmates when Ten starts filming its second season, though no date has been set yet.
"It was fun working with all of them, the mood was always light and cheery on set."
Having played a string of recognisable, serious characters, he hopes to ham it up on screen if possible.
"If I have the chance, I want to be cast as a funny character, someone who is hilarious," hesaid.
And although Joo is adored by women and envied by men for his good looks, the star says he has no secret formula.
"I do things that many people do. Sometimes I have a drink or two, sometimes I work out and play golf.
"But you really need your beauty sleep. It's good for your skin. You have to sleep well.
"It's only when you can't get enough sleep, that you'll need to nourish your skin with food or cosmetics."
