SINGAPORE - Three years ago, this reporter attended the MTV World Stage event in Kuala Lumpur, which boasted big names like Boys Like Girls, Kasabian and Pixie Lott.
But for me, the act which truly stole the show was The All- American Rejects. The pop-rock band simply oozed high-energy showmanship and, more importantly, heart.
If their fourth album is anything to go by, then these boys - frontman-bassist Tyson Ritter, guitarists Nick Wheeler and Mike Kennerty, and drummer Chris Gaylor - clearly still possess those great qualities.
Coming four years after 2008's When The World Comes Down, Kids In The Street sees the Oklahoma quartet find a balance between upbeat numbers about girls and growing up, and more emotive songs.
Admittedly, the 11-track record - which comes with five bonus tracks, including four pretty cool demos - will grow on you.
That's good news, considering that Kennerty revealed in a recent interview that, in recent years, Ritter "was hanging out with some bad folks, some bad women and seeing too many sunrises".
He's grown up, for sure. And the result is heavier songs that make you stop and listen.
There aren't many off-the- bat super hits like their previous chart toppers, such as Dirty Little Secret or Move Along (from the 2005 album of the same name).
But the beauty is in the album's subtleties. They've slowed things down somewhat, allowing the heart in Ritter's passion- filled keen to shine through.
Standout tracks include Fast &amp; Slow and the title track, which seem to draw inspiration from 1980s new-wave electronica.
Lead single Beekeeper's Daughter maintains the Rejects' edgy quirk with its "la di da" singalong refrain and bombastic horns.
There are missteps; some of the slower songs, like Affection, come across as rather self-indulgent.
On that number, Ritter croons: "And I know candy girls, yeah they just rot your teeth/But I've always been such a sucker for sweets/I need affection."
Pretty cringe-worthy.
But it's easy to overlook such mistakes. If anything, it proves that the band aren't afraid to innovate, refresh their sound and do something different, even if it might backfire.
Rejects? I think not.
