Mention Korean dramas and you'd immediately think of sappy, long drawn-out sob fests or superficial idol dramas that are typical of the category.
But a slew of dramas has bucked the trend, with titles like espionage thriller Iris (2009) turning the K-drama genre around.
These K-dramas pack intense and edgy undertones, and feature heart-stopping, weighty plots that will have you gasping rather than reaching for the tissue.
Take Midas (2011), for instance.
This sombre series centres on the ruthless and titillating aspects of the cut-throat corporate and financial world, and shows you the ins and outs of mergers, acquisitions and power struggles.
The 21-episode drama stars the dishy Jang Hyuk as Kim Do Hyun, an ambitious and intelligent law student from a humble background, who impresses law firms in the country with his drive and creativity.
He has one other good thing going for him - beautiful, doe-eyed long-time girlfriend Lee Jung Yun (played by the gorgeous Lee Min Jung), who is a quiet nurse in South Korea's best general hospital.
Things start going awry after Kim joins a wealthy family-run firm as its private lawyer, and gets embroiled in its schemes for more wealth and power.
His character (spoiler alert!) goes into a nosedive and he gets involved with Yoo In Hye (played by Kim Hee Ae), a 40-year-old unmarried, successful woman with a hedge-fund company.
On discovering the relationship, Lee breaks up with him and becomes closer to a terminally ill patient, who turns out to be Yoo's younger brother.
The two striking leads anchor the show well, thanks to their charisma and (let's face it) drop-dead good looks, while the plot of how power corrupts is certainly a good moral lesson in these tough economic times.
Still, things can get a tad heavy, as the drama lacks a much-needed dose of humour.
Crime drama Ten, meanwhile, hits the spot with its well-timed, light-hearted moments.
Part CSI and part Cold Case, it focuses on a special unit called "Ten", which aims to crack unsolved cases that have a less than 10 per cent chance of being solved.
It also weaves in the antics of its quirky team members.
The team is led by former detective and current police academy instructor Yeo Ji Hoon (played by Joo Sang Wook), who tackles the crimes with precision and logic.
The cases are intriguing, ranging from casino-related crimes to mysterious serial suicides, and strange and scintillating murders involving religion and duct tape.
It grips the viewer with its high-tech multiple camera work, dynamic cast and compelling, fast-paced stories.
The nine-parter, which first aired in South Korea in November last year, topped television ratings there continually for all nine weeks, and is one of the highest-rated cable dramas in South Korea so far this year.
It cost a hefty US$140,000 (S$179,000) per episode to make, and took close to four years for production to be completed.
Talk about commitment by the producers and cast. But, man, it was well worth it.
