Imagine yourself, an independent electronic artiste, being asked by a renowned producer to put together an album for one of the biggest bands in rock - one which goes on to win Best Rock Album at the 2009 Grammy Awards.
And then you tour on the road for six months as the opening act for the band, your classically-tinged but abstract sonic repertoire completely incongruous with a group that's supposed to sound like radio-friendly Brit rock.
But 32-year-old keyboardist and self-taught producer Jon Hopkins makes his journey of co-producing tracks on Coldplay's Viva La Vida (2008) - at the invitation of U2 and Depeche Mode producer Brian Eno - sound like all he did was have a chilled afternoon jam with the band.
The London-based Hopkins, who will be playing this Saturday at The Substation, told LOUD in a phone interview from Scotland that he didn't feel at all out of place with such a popular mainstream band.
Three years since their 2005 album X&amp;Y and its ubiquitous hit single Fix You, Coldplay were venturing into a new, experimental sound and they felt that Hopkins was the right man to work with.
"On the first day I met Coldplay, we just jammed. We communicated on that level (of music) and everything else just became quite relaxed," said Hopkins, though he admitted to some nerves on the first day in the studio.
"It was amazing working with a band of that popularity interested in experimenting, doing it for the right reasons, and who liked to have someone like me around to add to their own ideas.
"Once I got past the nerves, it was really fun to experience that," added the 2011 Mercury Prize nominee for UK's Album Of The Year award for Diamond Mine, one that he worked on with singer-songwriter King Creosote.
The awards saw Hopkins nominated alongside songstress Adele, rocker Ana Calvi and pop artiste Katy B.
And after months in the studio working with the band and co-producing several tracks, one of Hopkins' original tracks, Light Through The Veins, was used as an intro to the album's lush, atmospheric opening number, Life In Technicolor.
Perhaps Hopkins' instinctive ability to transcend genres owes much to the combination of piano concertos he was brought up on by his mum, to the teen years spent digging drum &amp; bass, grunge and house, and beginning his career in the music business playing keyboard for Grammy Award winner Imogen Heap.
It's not surprising, then, that this versatile producer has also scored movies, notably, Peter Jackson's 2009 thriller, The Lovely Bones.
He was later hand-picked by Welsh indie director Gareth Edwards to score the 2010 sci-fi cult hit Monsters, which helped land Edwards the rights to direct and reboot the new Godzilla movie (release date not officially announced).
Hopkins is helping Edwards on a "few projects", but he doesn't find the prospect of working with the director to score Godzilla tempting, preferring instead to concentrate on his own fourth solo studio album.
"I definitely look forward to working with Edwards again, but I doubt a big film studio would want my sound for such a big action movie. I'd rather be in control of my own projects," said Hopkins.
Never one to take the beaten path, Hopkins gave advice to music students and budding music producers here hoping to push production boundaries and rules.
"I think everyone should enjoy the process of studying, but more so, enjoy learning things in your own way and by following your own instincts.
"That's the best way to train rather than being told how to do it. Trust your ear."
