Director Samantha Scott-Blackhall is never shy to push boundaries, often taking on projects with complex, heavyweight themes.
Her previous works include a different spin on the gritty William Golding novel Lord Of The Flies (2007) and Quills (2005), a provocative production about the Marquis de Sade.
In her latest project, on till Sunday as part of the Esplanade's latest The Studio series, the 33-year-old Singaporean is out to tackle a loaded question: Does God exist?
Freud's Last Session - based on a highly acclaimed off-Broadway production written by American playwright Mark St Germain - follows a fictional conversation between the famous Austrian psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud and Irish professor and novelist C. S. Lewis.
The former was a staunch atheist and the latter, a born- again Christian.
my paper caught up with Scott-Blackhall to discuss the challenges of dealing with controversial issues in theatre.
When did you first come across Freud's Last Session?
I came into contact with it online earlier this year.
When I read the text, I was overwhelmed by the themes, by the fact that the playwright had given these two people the opportunity to come together - though they didn't in real life - and by the heavy, intriguing themes.
Were you apprehensive about taking on a play with controversial themes?
Whether good or bad, I'm always attracted to these kinds of heavyweight plays, such as Agnes Of God, which I did in 2003.
Rather than being worried about how they'll be received, I am attracted to plays that challenge the audience and those of us who are putting it together.
Is the play accessible to those who are not particularly tuned in to philosophy?
The beauty of it is that the playwright has written a lot of humour into the play, and any time anything gets a little too intellectual, something happens environmentally that makes the actors stop.
There's never a moment when you feel overwhelmed by the topics.
Having said that, the debate is quite easy to grasp... At the end of the day, these are just two men speaking up for what they believe in.
Freud's Last Session is on till Sunday at the Esplanade Theatre Studio. For show times and to buy tickets, at $25 each, visit Sistic (www.sistic.com.sg or tel: 6348-5555)
