Mirror Mirror and Snow White And The Huntsman may be based on the same Brothers Grimm fairy tale, but they couldn't be more different.
Tarsem Singh's Mirror Mirror - screened here last month - is a campy retelling in which Julia Roberts plays the Evil Queen with much irreverence, while Snow White (Lily Collins) leads a Bollywood-style mass dance in its happily-ever-after finale.
In contrast, the first feature film by director Rupert Sanders is dead serious. Snow White is played by Kristen Stewart in this version.
Her "prince" is William (Sam Claflin), a duke and childhood friend with whom she is separated after young William and his family escape with surviving soldiers from the persecution of Queen Ravenna (Charlize Theron).
Of course, from what we know of the famous tale, the troubles began after Snow White's mother died of illness. Her father took a second wife (Ravenna in this film), who promptly killed him off.
As the film's title suggests, the role of the Huntsman, who is dispatched by the Queen to murder Snow White in the woods, is given added emphasis.
Chris Hemsworth (Thor) plays the uncouth Huntsman, with the emotional intensity of an alcoholic commoner still coming to terms with his wife's death.
In a twist to the original story, he is ordered to capture Snow White, after she escapes from the castle on the day that the Queen discovers from her magic mirror that the 18-year-old princess is now the fairest of them all.
Instead of fulfilling his task, he protects Snow White from harm and is instrumental in getting her to her father's former troops to plan their attack on the Queen.
The problem is that Hemsworth's Huntsman doesn't get very interesting as a major character.
Call him a glorified side character, if you will. But he can't hold a candle to Theron's vain and villainous Queen, who spouts the immortalised line, "Mirror mirror on the wall", is decked out in a gorgeous black gown, and seethes with anger and pure evilness every chance she gets.
Oscar winner Theron veers dangerously close to overacting but is, nonetheless, riveting to watch.
Fortunately, Stewart holds her own with her unconventional beauty, playing up the combined state of determination and apprehension that she has perfected from playing Bella in the Twilight movie franchise.
Even non-fans of Twilight will be stirred by Stewart's rousing performance, as Snow White delivers a pre-battle speech before her troops like an enlightened messiah who has just realised her purpose in the world.
If you have to ask, dwarves do appear in this film and join in the final battle. An interesting note is that they are played by non-dwarf actors - like Ian McShane, Bob Hoskins and Toby Jones - who are "shrunk" using special effects.
Ultimately, what's most impressive is the film's exquisite look and feel.
With the help of cinematographer Greig Fraser, production designer Dominic Watkins and Oscar-winning costume designer Colleen Atwood (Alice In Wonderland), every frame of the film is an intricate work of art that respectfully teases out the gothic and magical qualities that fairy tales imbue.
Snow White and the Huntsmen (PG13) Fantasy/127 minutes Rating: 3.5/5 stars
