SINGAPORE - Guerilla Collective is one breakdance group you are likely to meet if you walk through the underpass to get to Esplanade from Raffles City.
There are many groups of b-boys and b-girls (as they are popularly known) practising flashy dance moves and gravity-defying flares and flips here in Singapore.
But only one of them won the b-boy crew category at the R16 Singapore Elimination 2012. Singapore Elimination is a breakdance competition organised by Singapore's Street Festival, All Amped Up, in partnership with R16.
R16 is an annual international b-boy tournament and urban arts cultural festival sponsored primarily by the Korea Tourism Organization .
The local finals were held at Far East Plaza earlier this year.
The winners of the four categories of the competition - popping, locking, b-boy solo and b-boy crew - will represent Singapore in Taiwan at the R16 South East Asia 2012 on June 9 and 10.
The winners in Taiwan get to go to Korea to represent South-east Asia in the R16 finals. The tournament was first held in 2007 in South Korea.
Mr Norbin Ngoh, 27, who is the leader of Guerilla Collective, said: "Since we won the b-boy crew category, we have been practising every day. We use the underpass at Esplanade or a private dance studio to dance."
The group, formed a few months back, has eight members, who are students, national servicemen and working adults.
Mr Ngoh, a recruitment consultant, said: "Although we only just started out dancing as a crew, we have known each other for many years from the breakdance circle, some for as long as nine years."
Mr Jonathan Cheong, 25, who is also part of Guerilla Collective, is looking forward to performing in Taiwan.
The part-time performer and dancer said: "The exchange and exposure will be excellent and we can make so many new friends."
Mr Shaik Syamir, 20, a student, agreed that breakdancing is not just about competing. Killa Moves, the crew that Mr Syamir is part of, made it to the top eight in the b-boy crew category in Singapore Elimination.
Mr Syamir said: "Hip-hop and b-boy is also a culture. It's about expressing ourselves with dance, and also about bonding with people from different races and religions."
Mr Cheong said that the b-boy style of dancing is not easy. To be able to compete, the team has to maintain a high level of physical fitness.
Mr Cheong said: "When practising, you have to ensure that you do not sustain any injury that might affect your performance in the competition.
"A number of the moves are also very demanding on your body, and you have to take care of it well."
Mr Syamir feels that a love for the hip-hop culture and the dance is very important, together with a commitment to keep practising.
He said: "If you love it, practising will no longer be a chore, and from there, everything will fall into place."
