SINGAPORE - Back home in Taiwan, Cherry Hsia played supporting roles in idol dramas like Absolute Boyfriend and Skip Beat!, where she got to work alongside heart-throb Jiro Wang and K-pop boy band Super Junior's Choi Si Won respectively.
Here in Singapore, she is the lead actress in the Channel 8 rom-com Absolutely Charming, which is showing on weekdays at 9pm, and gets a love interest in local hunk Elvin Ng.
Speaking to The New Paper at the recent press conference for the series, the 29-year-old model-actress revealed: "Wang is a loyal friend. Once, I was feeling troubled and he came to sing karaoke with me at midnight even though he had to work at 5am the next morning.
"Choi appeared very distant the first time we met. But I later realised he's not as distant as I had thought. He's very polite and very professional.
"He knelt for a scene even though his knee hurt from an old injury, but he didn't complain at all." But when asked to choose who would make the best boyfriend, Hsia chose Ng - even though they are not an item in real life.
Unpretentious
They have many things to talk about and she found him unpretentious, blushing easily when teased. She added: "The director (of Absolutely Charming) thought we were dating each other."
Hsia is also best known for her roles in Taiwanese pop star Jay Chou's music videos like Hair Like Snow and Beyond A Thousand Miles.
She said: "Chou has no airs at all and he's like a little boy who likes to play pranks. He often asks other people for their opinions and is very willing to accept their ideas."
Hsia, who often plays weak or pampered women, accepted the Absolutely Charming role to play against stereotype.
In the show, she plays Hu Liqin, a beautiful fox spirit banished to earth to find true love.
To make things worse, Liqin has a big red birthmark on her face and emits a strong body odour whenever she sees someone she likes.
The role is lively and likeable, a far cry from the characters she usually plays.
The executive producer for Absolutely Charming Leong Lye Lin told Shin Min Daily News last month that Hsia wasn't a diva. Her rate is also lower than some of Singapore's popular actors.
Ms Leong said: "She didn't stay in a five-star hotel and was put up in a YMCA hotel, and she ate in hawker centres with the crew."
Hsia likes Singapore so much she turned down a role in a China drama production to take up Absolutely Charming.
"I've worked in China before. I feel actors should go to different countries to learn more and to develop chemistry with the local actors," she said.
Since taking on the supporting role of Hong Kong actor Daniel Chan's ditzy wife in local film-maker Jack Neo's movie We Not Naughty earlier this year, she hasdeveloped a soft spot for our warm climate, food and culture.
"Singapore men are more gentlemanly and respectful compared to Taiwanese men," she said.
"For example, the men here are more accepting of women who have their own thinking. Taiwanese men are more chauvinistic. I feel comfortable here."
karpengk@sph.com.sg
