Fate dealt him a cruel blow a few days after he was born.
An attack of jaundice led him to lose most of his motor skills. As he grew up, the wheelchair became his best friend.
By the time he was 15, N. Ramakrishnan realised he had some control over two toes on his right foot.
Having watched his sister do her schoolwork in painting, he decided to try and use his toes to paint.
With a great deal of effort he persevered and, six years later in 1990, RK, as the Mumbai-based painter is known, became the first Indian member of the Association of Mouth and Foot Painting Artists.
He has since held several exhibitions in India and one in Taiwan. Later this month, the 42-year-old will be visiting Singapore as a guest of the International Mouth and Foot Painting Artists Association.
He will join other painters from the region for a workshop and also give a demonstration at the Marina Mandarin on May 1.
tabla! got in touch with Mr Ramakrishnan through ArtFeat, an agency which promotes him.
The founder-director of ArtFeat Nandini Krishna conveyed to tabla! that RK is very excited about his Singapore trip and the prospect of meeting fellow artists from across the world.
RK, who is unable to speak clearly, has a full-time helper Mani, who has been with him for the past nine years and acts as a translator.
His father used to be a professor in a Mumbai college and his mother a school teacher.
Since it was difficult to send him to a special needs school which was far from their home, he was home schooled.
He understands Hindi, English and Tamil (his mother tongue).
RK has three sisters. One lives in the UAE, another in Bangalore and the third in Mumbai but he lives independently, having lost his parents several years ago.
However, his sister in Mumbai and her husband often drop by and help him manage his affairs, according to Ms Krishna.
She says that his paintings cost upwards of Rs3,000 (S$74) and that the cost is decided by RK himself.
Recently, he sold one for Rs85,000. Sometimes, if he feels like it, he gives a liberal discount and many a time he has donated his paintings to organisations that have either hosted his exhibitions or invited him.
He paints in acrylic and water colours.
Says Ms Krishna: "He prefers water colours and landscapes. Subtleties are gently introduced in the painting which evoke the deeper meaning of life."
Some of his paintings have been bought by the Mumbai branch of Deutsche Bank.
Recently, in an interview with Dubai newspaper Gulf News, his sister Vimala said one reason RK is so self-assured is because of the unflinching faith his parents had in him.
"They left no stone unturned to see that RK would be independent," she said.
They made it a point to take him along wherever they went, treated him just like his other siblings and encouraged him to do everything, she added.
After having met him at an event in Mumbai a couple of years ago, noted writer Shobhaa De wrote in one of her columns:
"Here is a man trapped in a wheelchair, his limbs painfully contorted, every small movement a huge effort, but his eyes - what eyes! - shining with enthusiasm as he energetically paints birds taking wing with no trace of bitterness or irony.
And I wonder - who is truly blessed - Ramakrishnan with his undaunted spirit... or people like us?"
patrickj@sph.com.sg
