KUALA LUMPUR - More controversies on TV3 Melodi host, Dira Abu Zahar.
Amid accusations that she's stepped on a woman's face with her high heels at an entertainment outlet in a five star hotel in Kuala Lumpur, fresh allegations have surfaced that Dira was drunk during the brawl.
"She was high on alcohol," the club manager told The Daily Chilli. "The fight happened around 1.30am, after her super bike meet. Her husband hit the girl and she stepped on her face."
Her claims are supported by top Malay entertainment portal, www.murai.com.my, who quoted eyewitnesses at the club.
A police report has been made against the TV3 personality and it was leaked online by top Malay blog www.rotikaya.com.
When pressed for comments, Dira denies the online reports, saying things have been blown out of proportions.
"It's not true that I was drunk," she says. "I'm not a school kid who's excited about partying. I don't have a party lifestyle.
"I'm married and I have a child. I know my limits. Please don't judge me."
Reiterating that she was at the club to chill out with her super biker friends, Dira adds, "I'm part of a superbiker club. I had a meeting with my superbiker friends on that night and we decided to hang out after our meet.
"My older brother was with me. We were not hanging out at a nightclub. We were at a pub-cum-restaurant."
The 28-year-old TV host however, has declined to recap the unhappy incident, saying "I can't talk about it 'coz a lot of people are involved. I have to take care of their interests. Besides, it's a police case now."
On her future with Melodi, Dira says she will continue to host the highly popular Malay infotainment programme with comedian Zizan - but with some major adjustment as she's currently pursuing her masters degree.
"We've brought in Awal Ashaari as our third host. On days that I can't make it, Awal will take over my spot," she enthuses.
Insisting that she's not a quitter, Dira says, "No, I won't quit TV just because of the controversy. Awal was roped in 'coz we've always wanted him to be on the show."
