Playing music overseas on a government grant. Impossible?
Not so, says Martin Kong, 25, the drummer in Singapore rock quintet Caracal.
In 2010, the then seven-year-old band found itself in a financial bind.
Coming off the successes of its debut EP released a year earlier, the band - made up of guitarist Gabriel DeSouza, 23, bass player Steve Kwek, 24, singer Kenneth Christopher "KC" Meals, 23, and guitarist Field Teo, 25, along with Kong - was invited to perform at China's biggest music event, the Midi Festival 2010 in Beijing.
But getting money to go there was tough.
"At that point, we were still students, so money was tight for us," Kong tells The New Paper on Sunday.
"We pooled together our savings, but the money was still not enough for the trip because none of us had full-time jobs," he recalls.
Airline tickets to Beijing alone cost $800 per person, he adds.
They then heard that they could get a grant from the National Arts Council (NAC).
"I thought why not, we'll take any support we can get, " Kong reveals.
"We found the application online. There were a lot of questions - they wanted us to give more details about the festival and if international acts were also on the bill."
They waited for a month before it was approved. Eventually, Caracal received $2,000 from the NAC. While it did not cover all their expenses, he remains grateful.
"The money covered our transport and food expenses when we were there. It may not seem a lot, but we can't complain because at least our trip was subsidised," Kong maintains.
But Caracal's experience is unusual - at least going by what the local musicians tell TNPS.
At least the band knew that there was some kind of financial assistance available to local musicians.
Not so for many others in the local music scene.
Which is why when Minister for Information, Communications and the Arts Yaacob Ibrahim revealed in a written reply in Parliament that more than $4 million in funding was provided for the local music scene over the past three years, most musicians and band members expressed surprise.
Nominated Member of Parliament Janice Koh had asked the minister what steps the Government was taking to develop local popular music.
"Most of us were surprised such funding was available," confesses musician Yee Chang Kang, who fronts homegrown power pop quartet TypeWriter.
He says, like most musicians, he only became aware that there was funding when Mr Yaacob's comments in Parliament were reported.
"It is good to know that money has been used to help develop Singaporean musical talents," adds the 40-year-old, whose day job is TV commercial director with production house The Shooting Gallery.
Epitomising the general confusion, another musician, who declined to be named, asks: "What are the yardsticks for bands to qualify for this funding? Finally, who decides who it should be given to?"
Most of the musicians say more could be done to publicise that grants for musicians are available from the NAC and the Media Development Authority (MDA) to help artistes here in the fields of music, literature, drama and the arts.
It is understood that funds will only go to applicants who are heading for bigger events abroad. In the case of musicians, this would mean playing at overseas music festivals.
But is this setting the bar too high for Singaporean musicians?
Yes, argues Yee.
"Just like anything in the arts scene, you have to nurture it. With that in mind, perhaps the people administering these funds could judge the applications on a case-by-case basis," he adds.
Mr Willy Tan, the founder of artiste management company and independent label Aging Youth, agrees.
Says the 33-year-old: "Giving grants on a case-by-case approach will be good. Not all festivals held overseas are well attended, after all."
"We completely understand the need for rigour and diligence in ensuring that the funds are deployed responsibly," says Mr Mike See, 34, who manages The Great Spy Experiment, a homegrown outfit which played at the Singapore Day event in New York recently.
"In addition, the lead times required for grant approvals can be long-drawn, and artistes often only receive confirmations from festivals pretty late, making it virtually impossible to receive funding, therefore making the trip unfeasible," he adds.
Mr Errol Tan (right), the founder of Singaporean record label Kitty Wu, which manages Caracal, wonders if hiring the right people to administer these grants would be the next logical step.
"It would be helpful if there is someone behind these grants who understands the musician's needs and gives help accordingly," says the 36-year-old.
It was a report that shook the Singapore music scene.
Last Monday, Minister for Information, Communications and the Arts (Mica) Yaacob Ibrahim (right) said that over the past three years, more than $4 million was spent to help local musicians in the areas of talent development and training, overseas promotion, participation and profiling, as well as creating platforms and opportunities for collaboration and showcasing.
He said: "Through the International Development Grants, local musicians can also benefit from the National Arts Council's (NAC) initiatives to promote and profile Singapore artistes and works overseas."
The grant supported Singaporean band Cheating Sons on their tour of South Korea last year.
Homegrown singer-songwriter Inch Chua also benefited from the grant, paving the way for her appearances at the 2012 South by Southwest Music Festival in Texas and the 2012 Canadian Music Festival in Toronto.
The grant, introduced in the 1990s, gives local artistes up to $40,000 for travel and up to $70,000 for international collaborations.
There are various ways to apply for the grant: Musicians who intend to do so can write in and submit their proposal to the NAC via e-mail, mail or by calling one of the numbers shown on its website.
A Mica spokesman told The New Paper on Sunday that applicants can also contact NAC's arts managers in Goodman Arts Centre on the grants they can apply for, based on what's most relevant and suitable for them.
Goodman Arts Centre, located in Mounbatten, was opened in 2010.
It is managed by NAC and aims to give arts groups the advantage of subsidised space and to enrich the arts scene.
Other funding schemes:
- Through the Media Development Authority's (MDA) Development Assistance Scheme, local musicians can get financial aid to produce electronic press kits, a tool to help them sell their brand abroad.
- Last year, Singapore bands Monster Cat and I Am David Sparkle received grants from the MDA for its overseas gigs under the Inspire grant, which was introduced in 2009 and "geared towards the potential distribution and sales" of content, according to a Straits Times report.
While the scheme was discontinued last September, musicians can now apply for MDA's Marketing Assistance, which gives up to $5,000 for individuals and up to $25,000 for companies.
Mica could not provide the figures on the number of musicians who have received the grants.
Meanwhile in January, MDA led a delegation of seven companies and a music showcase to Midem, the world's largest music industry trade fair held in Cannes, France.
The specially choreographed Singapore Music Showcase featured such acts as Sixx, Tay Kewei, The Professionals, Wicked Aura, Youth Wreck, Zero Sequence and Randolf Arriola.
