From his debut at the age of 16, Hideki Saijo won a huge following with his powerful singing style and dynamic stage presence.
Hit songs such as "Kizudarake no Lola" and "Young Man" kept his fans on their feet and he seemed ready to continue forever.
But in June 2003 Saijo noticed something had changed.
While on a business trip in South Korea, he was surprised one morning by his reflection in the mirror.
His left jaw drooped a little and appeared slightly distorted. He was also tired.
After returning to Japan, he learned he had suffered a stroke, which was why, his doctor said, he slurred his words.
Saijo was only 48 years old at the time and still physically active, but he felt he must have done more harm than good to his health by pushing himself too hard.
Before the stroke, he regularly visited gyms to keep in shape.
After a bout of strenuous exercise, he would relax in a sauna.
To amplify the results of his workouts, he cut down on the amount of water he would drink.
"I'm as good as dead as a singer. What am I supposed to do from now on?" he thought to himself.
Saijo persevered in his rehabilitation by exercising his facial muscles, repeatedly sticking his tongue in and out of his mouth. His wife repeatedly encouraged him by saying: "Don't rush. Take whatever time you need to recover."
Eight years passed and he had finally regained his voice.
Saijo thought he would be able to take better care of his health.
But in December 2011 he suffered a second stroke.
After visiting the doctor for treatment of a common cold, Saijo found himself stumbling over his own feet and falling down around his home.
He was planning an important Christmas dinner show.
Thinking that he had a stubborn cold, he forced himself to head over to rehearsals.
However, Saijo staggered and wobbled on his feet whenever he walked.
He was admitted to the same hospital where he had received treatment for his first stroke.
When he tried to go to the bathroom, he fell out of bed.
After undergoing an MRI brain scan, doctors found he had clogged blood vessels.
"Since the first stroke, I paid careful attention to my diet and training methods. So why did I suffer another stroke?" he asked his doctor.
His doctor explained that his blood vessels had become thin and prone to clogging in the cold winter weather.
In an attempt to console the singer, the doctor said: "No matter how vigilant you are in taking care of your health, a stroke can occur at any time. It's a blessing in disguise that it was detected at an early stage."
Despite his doctor's kind words, Saijo became depressed once he heard that the stroke may have impaired his ability to move his right hand and leg.
Saijo was forced to cancel his Christmas dinner show.
"I worked so hard during rehabilitation and was finally starting to regain my health. Must I go through all of that again?" he thought, overwhelmed by a feeling of despair.
Once again, Saijo began the fight to counter the aftereffects of a stroke.
The first time he only experienced difficulty in speaking.
Although the physical therapy for his facial muscles had been difficult, he was able to recover relatively quickly.
However, after the second stroke, Saijo found it difficult to use his right hand and leg.
He was devastated.
"I wondered if I'd be able to use them again, even with continuous rehabilitation. I was so worried," he recalled. As he could not bend or stretch his leg, he felt as if his leg was like a dead weight.
He was temporarily discharged from the hospital during the yearend and New Year's holidays.
Using a cane and supported by his wife, he was able to walk near his home--even though crossing an 8-meter bridge took 10 minutes.
Upon seeing how difficult it was for him to walk, Saijo's 7-year-old boy anxiously asked him, "Are you all right?"
"At that time, I thought 'I want to be able to walk as soon as possible for my children, even if its just a few steps,'" he said.
He then transferred to another hospital specializing in rehabilitation.
However, he quickly became frustrated when he could not complete easy tasks such as standing on one foot or turning over a card.
However, his steady efforts paid off as he gradually began to regain movement in his right leg and hand.
He worked hard during rehabilitation and set his sights on returning to work, choosing a charity concert in Fuji, Shizuoka Prefecture, on Jan. 28 for his comeback.
His doctor finally allowed him to leave the hospital two days before the event, saying, "You seem to have recovered just enough to endure the concert."
However, he could not remain standing on stage for very long, so he had to sing while seated in a chair.
Although he was worried about his ability to finish the concert, he managed to sing 12 songs with about 1,200 fans in the audience.
He then gathered all his strength to stand up and sing the last number.
The fans burst into applause and he was filled with a desire to express his thanks to the audience.
"I'm not what I used to be, but my fans listened to my songs with an open heart," he said.
"At any rate, I stood on the stage at the concert. By setting a goal, I felt like I was able to advance--even if it was just a step at a time."
Currently Saijo is undergoing rehabilitation by using a balance ball and otedama beanbags, used in a children's game similar to jacks, at his house and a rehabilitation facility.
He is encouraged by his wife, who is 17 years younger, and three children, all of whom are primary school students.
The children hold his hand when they go up and down the dark stairs of a movie theater and wash his back for him when he bathes.
"They treat me in a natural, loving way and are really a strong support system for me," he said.
When Saijo was first paralyzed on the right side, he did not want to show his body to anyone. Now he doesn't feel ashamed if people look at him.
"I feel happy when other people are encouraged by my efforts. It inspires me," he said.
