It's an ad that grabs your attention instantly.
The advertisement (left) features Brazilian model Isabeli Fontana wearing a range of brightly coloured swimwear, with her skin accentuated by a dark-brown tan.
The campaign was launched by fashion giant H&amp;M to show off its latest summer collection.
The 28-year-old model's deeply bronzed figure has appeared on billboards in Europe and on the firm's website, reported the Daily Mail.
But the Swedish cheap-and-chic fashion giant had to apologise after the swimwear campaign sparked outrage among cancer groups.
The Swedish Cancer Society wrote an opinion piece in Sweden's largest newspaper, Dagens Nyheter, on Thursday.
The group said: "The clothing giant is creating, not least among young people, a beauty ideal that is deadly.
"Every year, more people die in Sweden of (skin cancer) than in traffic accidents, and the main cause is too much suntanning.
"Regardless of how the H&amp;M model got her tan, through sunning or a computer program, the effect is the same: H&amp;M tells us we should be very tannedonthe beach.
"It is sad to write this, but H&amp;M will, through its latest advertising campaign, not only sell more bathing suits, but also contribute to more people dying from skin cancer."
H&amp;M responded through an e-mail sent to AFP. It said: "We are sorry if we have upset anyone with our latest swimwear campaign.
"It was not our intention to show off a specific ideal or to encourage dangerous behaviour, but instead to show off our latest summer collection."
It added: "We have taken note of the views and will continue to discuss this internally ahead of future campaigns."
It is not immediately clear how Fontana achieved the tan, leaving visitors to the site unsure whether she is wearing fake tan in the ads, or whether she has achieved the deep tan from lying under the sun.
H&amp;M has defended the campaign by saying that it chose a model with darker skin to best show the strong colours on sale this season.
The Swedish company said Fontana has naturally dark skin.
However, pictures of the model previously published in former campaigns show her with a light skin tone.
H&amp;M did not indicate if it was pulling the ads.
The company has previously come under fire for using very thin models in its advertising campaigns.
