Datuk Siti Nurhaliza made history when she won the Anugerah Seri Perak (Silver Award) at the recent 25th Anugerah Bintang Popular Berita Harian (ABPBH 2011).
Siti had won the grand awards at ABP seven times before, beating previous ABP winners, to bag this near-once-in-a-lifetime prize.
Previous ABP winners were Datuk M Nasir, Datin Sofea Jane, Ziana Zain, Eman Manan, Nabil (Raja Lawak) and Shahiezy Sam.
The singer, who rose to fame when she was a teenager back in the 90s, thanked her fans and the other artistes that she competed with, for the silver award.
The silver award celebrated ABP's 25 year history of recognising top talents in the local entertainment industry.
At the awards show at Genting Arena of Stars, Genting Highlands, hunky actor Aaron Aziz, caused mass hysteria.
The actor, who is currently riding high on the box-office successes of KL Gangster and Ombak Rindu, was voted Most Famous Actor with 87,669 votes.
Aaron was on a roll - and the screams were aplenty for him, as he also won the Most Popular Male Film Actor on the night.
"My daughter called me up and congratulated me," the grateful actor told the press after that awards show.
He added that all his acting work was done to give his family a better life, he said, with his wife Diyana Hazik, by his side.
Aaron's family definitely gets a better life with the ABP prizes of a Nissan Teana 2.5 and RM250,000 worth of Rafflesia jewellery.
Also, a special lifetime award was given to R &amp; B/jazz singer Datuk Sheila Majid, for her 30 years in the music industry.
She also performed and got the audience clapping to a medley of Antara Anyir Dan Jakarta and another infectious number from the 80s, Sinaran.
She credited her win to all her fans. "Aku Cinta Padamu," she said, onstage.
Maya Karin also won the Most Popular Film Actress at the awards.
Maya, along with Aaron and Lisa Surihani reenacted a touching scene from the hit love-triangle movie, Ombak Rindu, on stage.
Other highlights included bride-to be Fasha Sandha winning the Most Popular TV Actress and Yuna winning Most Popular Female Singer.
Yuna, who is possibly the most "Malaysian" artiste to emerge since Sheila Majid, with her multi-racial following, could not attend the event.
The near three-hour salute to the local entertainment industry was telecast live on TV3 and was hosted by Zizan, Raja Azura, Sharifah Shahira Didie Alias.
There were also performances by Datuk M.Nasir, Black, Amy Search, Siti, Stacy, Anuar Zain and others.
ABPBH 2011 was organised by Berita Harian , with Lux as the main sponsor.
