Of all the homegrown acts slated to strut their stuff at Esplanade's annual rock music festival, Baybeats, this weekend, local death metal band Rudra is likely to be the only one older than the festival itself.
"While Baybeats is celebrating its 10th anniversary this year, we're celebrating our 20th," Rudra's 38-year-old frontman and bassist, Kathirasan, told LOUD with a chuckle.
"It's our second Baybeats gig, but we're still very excited and honoured.
"I remember the first time we played (in 2010), we were the first extreme metal band in Baybeats history to hit the stage...The crowd was energetic and responsive, way better than we had expected."
Formed in 1992, Rudra, which also includes drummer Shivanand, 38, guitarists Vinod, 27, and Subash, 25, have built a reputation for themselves among headbangers by pioneering Vedic metal.
It's a unique sub-genre of heavy metal that blends blistering riffs, breakneck solos and menacing growls with traditional Indian elements.
A huge amount of research goes into their "lyrical and artistic exploration", Kathirasan said.
"We use Indian percussion instruments, like the tabla, in our songs, as well as Sanskrit chants."
One of their tracks, Hymns from the Blazing Chariot, is a re-imagination of an ancient Sanskrit text.
Another track, Now Therefore, delves into the concept of existentialism and mankind's search for inner peace.
"In the beginning, we had a strong desire to stand out from other metal bands, we didn't want to be run-of-the-mill," explained Kathirasan, who works full-time in property management.
"Although we play metal, we listen to practically everything...I like classical music as well as 80s pop.
"It didn't take long for us to realise that one way to stand out was to look into our own cultural backyard."
Two decades on, the guys have six independent albums to their name and a diverse fanbase that sprawls across South Asia, Europe, the US and Canada.
They've performed in various parts of th world, including Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, India and Sri Lanka.
"The metalheads in America have turned out to be the most appreciative lot. They certainly are our biggest fans," claimed Kathirasan.
"They like the special twist we add to our brand of metal.
"Last year, we did a six-city tour of Canada and to our surprise, some people in the audience actually knew our lyrics by heart and could even sing along to our songs!"
Rudra plan to tour Europe next year, but mainstream fame and fortune are not the band's ultimate goals.
Like Kathirasan, the other members have day jobs - Shivanand is in real estate, Vinod is in retail and Subash is in public relations and marketing.
"We just want to do this for as long as we can," Kathirasan said.
"Aesthetic satisfaction is important to us, we hope to continue to gel music and artistic elements together."
In November 2010, Rudra collaborated with local Indian contemporary dance troupe, Maya Dance Theatre, for a performance at the Esplanade and garnered rave reviews.
"Our aim is to one day put up a full-length live visual-audio production that combines heavy metal and the arts," said Kathirasan.
With an instantly memorable band name (a tongue-in-cheek nod to the media fascination over Malaysia's controversial pro-polygamy club), this quintet plays laid-back, melodious, dreamy surf pop with influences ranging from Best Coast to Dum Dum Girls and Frankie Rose.
Fans of lo-fi, guitar-driven tunes will love the band's simple, summery original songs, which they released on their self-titled four-track debut EP in late 2011.
Obedient Wives Club will play on June 29, 7pm, at Esplanade's Outdoor Theatre.
Indie rock outfit King Kong Jane, known for their powerful, energetic live gigs, return to Baybeats after first performing there in 2007 - now armed with a more impressive resume. In 2008, the quintet, whose self-penned songs sound like they were inspired by Incubus and Franz Ferdinand, emerged champions of nationwide band competition Powerjam.
The guys also put out an independent studio album, Waiting For Friday, in March last year.
King Kong Jane will play on June 29, 9pm, at Esplanade's Outdoor Theatre.
Alternative folk-rock quartet Monster Cat are no conventional musicians.
First, their members go by bizarre stage monikers - HentaiCat, CopyCat, PsychoCat and ZenCat.
Then, the band created a stir a couple of months back, when they chose to work with file-sharing site, The Pirate Bay, to release their debut album, Mannequins.
Here's a chance to catch these iconoclastic musicians perform their brand of moody, atmospheric rock live.
Monster Cat will play on June 30, 5pm at Esplanade's Observation Deck (Library@Esplande), 8.30pm and 10pm at Esplanade's Chillout Stage (Concourse).
