Here is something you don't hear every day: A man confessing he loves washing up in the kitchen &hellip; even going as far as finding it therapeutic standing by the sink, doing the dishes.
This revelation, offered by George Young - a half Chinese, half Greek Londoner who is creating all sorts of waves in the entertainment industry in Singapore - pretty much sums him up.
Where Young is concerned, there is always something unexpected going on, although the first impression he projects - oh you know, being an easy-going, accessible and all round nice guy - is not wrong either.
Another element of mystique about him is, one would not be able to guess his age correctly. In most of his photos, he sports a boyish look, replete with interestingly themed t-shirts, jeans and spiky hair. In person, he has smiling eyes, perpetually moving eyebrows and (non-airbrushed, thank you very much) wrinkle-free skin.
All this makes it hard to believe that Young is, erm, not so young. He is 32 this year, or according to his calculation: "I am eight years old officially because I was born on Feb 29. So, this year was my big eight. I am waiting to reach the double digit."
It was while he was in his late 20s that he decided to switch his career to showbiz from - get this - law. He received a Postgraduate Diploma in Law from University Of Westminister, London, and Legal Practice Certificate, with distinction, from the College Of Law, London. Then he trained for two years as a solicitor at a London law firm.
Since making his way to Singapore last year and signing up with one of that nation's biggest agencies (Fly Entertainment) on his second day on the island, he has been very much in demand.
So far, he has hosted the game show Singapore's Million Dollar Money Drop and acted in an English TV series (The Pupil) and two Mandarin dramas (he only started learning Mandarin eight months ago). Right now, he is also one of the 18 guys featured in the upcoming six-episode series on Diva, Hot Guys Who Cook.
Despite admitting just last year (in an online interview) that he is "rubbish at cooking", Young gamely tried cooking one of his father's favourite dishes, char kuey teow (for the first time, mind you) at the press launch of the series in Kuala Lumpur, last week.
After apologising to his father (from whom he got the recipe), he continued to entertainingly botch the dish up.
"Oh my goodness. Theory and practical are two different things, as I discovered and exemplified just now. I am still sweating just thinking about it," he said during this oft-interrupted 30-minute interview as (irrespective of failed dish) everyone wanted to take a photo with Young. Unsurprisingly, the polite model/TV host/actor was only too obliging.
While Young cooks and loves the idea of experimenting in the kitchen, he only dares whip up a few things, and even that, are mostly for his own consumption. One thing he is confident of cooking however, is Scotch Egg, (hard-boiled egg wrapped in meat, coated in bread crumbs and deep-fried), which his mother taught him when he was six. For Hot Guys Who Cook, he shares his own creation; something he calls Beef Steak Wrap, which has a lot of meat in it.
Having grown up with his mother cooking both Chinese and Greek cuisine at home, he now has a wide-ranging palate. But, as it turns out, his favourite dish is something he acquired from his visits to his grandparents' home in Seremban during the summer holidays.
"Steamed chicken rice. I can eat that every day, three times a day. I won't try that just yet, but I love it, especially when it melts down your throat ... when you don't have to chew. That's the best. With the garlic and chilli, and the soy sauce. I need to learn how to cook chicken rice," he enthused.
Having made Singapore his base, he can not only eat steamed chicken rice three times a day if he wants (with the Lion City famed for the delicacy), but find himself very busy with various projects.
Before coming to Singapore, he tested the waters in Taiwan but failed to make a ripple, due to his poor command of Mandarin then. Back in England, he faced another peculiar problem.
"George Young is a stage name, my surname is Ng. When I first started out in England, after leaving law, it was always a case of not being Chinese or Asian enough, or not Caucasian enough. I got some roles for Caucasians, but I was stuck in the twilight zone. So, I went with Young because it's more ambiguous."
"It opened more doors, and they don't look at the surname and go, 'How do you say N, G?' And 'No vowels?' So that eliminated that. And George Young could be from anywhere; they look at me and I could be from wherever, depending on how they dress me up."
And that's how he got cast alongside Bollywood leading man John Abraham in the 2010 Hindi film Jhootha Hi Sahi, which was filmed in London. "They wanted an English speaking guy of Japanese descent," he said with a laugh.
"I had to learn a Hindi song, which I did from watching the video on YouTube. After singing in Hindi, everything else was easy, including dancing with John Abraham, which was a weird experience." Young also had a recurring role in BBC drama Casualty - "I played the boyfriend to a main character. When I read my character got dumped, I was very annoyed."
His late start in the entertainment industry stems from his paper chase. But no amount of studies could deter him from his love for performing - he hosted a documentary and was featured in commercials during this time, too. Young recalls that he was five when he first volunteered to be in a play, only to feign illness to get out of it in the end.
Then in school, he started enjoying acting, getting enthusiastic about it during English class when he had to read Shakespeare aloud. He even participated in a couple of school plays. When he was 19, he went to the New York Film Academy in New York to study drama for six months. Strangely enough though, when it came to furthering his tertiary education, the eldest child in a family of four boys, chose to earn a degree in psychology at University of Southampton, Britain.
While Young joked that he was driven to take up this course so that he'd have the ability to read minds by the end of it, the reality of it is, he wanted to understand his two younger brothers - who are autistic - a little better.
He shared: "My brothers and I are all of similar age. We went through puberty around the same time - the hormones, the growth spurts and everything. My mom and dad got the brunt of it. As we grew up, my other brother, Anthony, and I, had to look after my younger brothers Andrew and Paul."
"They are on the more severe side of the autistic spectrum and have under-developed language ability. So, they threw tantrums, out of frustration for not being able to communicate - us with them and them with us. So, the frustration manifests itself and can get a little violent sometimes. Ultimately, it's a question of trying to manage the situation as best we can without anyone getting hurt. It's tough, especially on my mum. And it's still tough; they are adults now and huge as well. Andrew is 193cm and Paul is just under my height (180cm)."
Armed with a degree and a close understanding of the condition, Young wanted to do something beneficial in this region ... which is exactly what he has done.
"I am working with the brand Kiehl's at the moment, to raise awareness about autism in Singapore, and hopefully raise money from the campaign. That's sort of a dream come true, to put autism in the public eye. I hope I can make an impression regionally."
Judging from the number of followers on his twitter account (@tweetfromgeorge) and the many "likes" he gets on his Facebook daily, the self-confessed tech geek needn't worry about people not listening to him, whether he's talking about his work or raising awareness about a subject that's close to his heart. After all, Young has impressed that no one is too old (sorry, we can't help it) to try something new if they put their heart into it.
"After working in a law firm, I thought I could do it for the rest of my life - it's a very secure job and my parents loved it, obviously. Then I thought I could just try the hosting or acting jobs, and never have to think back 'Oh, what if I had tried this?,' you know? In theory, I could always go back. I just really wanted to give it a go."
