SINGAPORE - Channel 8's most popular, attractive and eligible female celebs like Jeanette Aw and Joanne Peh are already off the market and in stable long-term relationships with foreign men.
And even though local actress Felicia Chin hasn't followed suit - yet - she has taken to the April issue of Chinese women's magazine Nuyou to boldly critique local guys.
In the column Chatroom, the 27-year-old former MediaCorp artiste wrote: "There are no good men left in Singapore. Is that true? The girls around me all have this 'complaint' these days...
"Singapore men lack quality. Maybe they've been too well-taken care of, it's as if they lack something. It's hard to find mature and steady men of the olden days like my father."
Chin, who has one more year of studies before she gets her business degree from the National University of Singapore then asked if there are any readers who object to what she wrote.
The New Paper met her last Thursday at the lensing ceremony for her new Channel 8 drama Don't Stop Believin', in which she plays a passionate teacher in a secondary school with the worst academic results.
The drama also stars Elvin Ng, Ian Fang, Edwin Goh and Kimberly Chia.
Chin said that she feels the local men she has met so far are generally as she described, and only a minority of her male friends are otherwise.
Though her comments are based mostly on what she heard from her female friends, some are her own observations.
She continued: "I think it's got something to do with our education system.
"We learn a lot by heart and focus too much on our studies. We spend little time honing other skills and on our inner self.
"Some of these men in their 20s are successful, but the focus is on wealth and what they have on the outside."
Chin claims she has had "very few" relationships in the past and that she's content being single now. All her ex-boyfriends are Singaporeans.
She prefers mature men who have "seen it all".
Age is not a priority or prerequisite, and she's okay with dating someone in his 40s or 50s as they may not look their age.
She's also open to dating foreigners.
"What's important is how we communicate and if we share the same frequency," Chin said.
"Daughters unconsciously compare men to their fathers. I like traditional men who can give good advice and whom you can depend on."
Chin admitted she had her reservations before she e-mailed her thoughts to Nuyou.
Chatroom is a column where a monthly guest engages in an out-of-the-box chat with Nuyou's deputy editor, Mr Ng Ho Ton.
Each develops something the other person has said into a new topic.
She said: "Would people be offended? Whether they agree or disagree, their reactions could be larger than what I expected.
"But Singapore is a liberal society and I'm not making a personal attack... Nuyou is an intimate magazine and if I don't share what I really feel, it defeats the purpose (of the column)."
Chin said she doesn't expect people to agree with her and also admits she may not be seeing the full picture.
Her intention is to make the column a good read and to get readers to think about it.
She welcomes feedback from them, although, to her knowledge, she has received none so far.
In a subsequent interview with Lianhe Wanbao last month after the Nuyou column appeared, Chin's words were bolder.
"(Local men) are a bit arrogant and think too highly of themselves. Everything must be fast. While they are following what's fashionable, they become more lacking in substance," she told the Chinese daily.
These men are also fond of gossip and complaining, and grumble immediately when they feel aggrieved.
Chin, who has friends from China, Vietnam and the US, feels it's because young local men have grown up in a comfortable environment and have not gone through hardships.
She cites the example of her Vietnamese friends in university who come here alone to study.
"They have a sense of urgency and seem more independent. They have to be, having come so far just to get an education," Chin said.
"They can't depend on anyone else, whereas we have our family here. We can go back crying to them."
Chin feels she and her peers are lucky because most of them do not have to worry about food or education and are also pampered by their parents.
But she thinks these benefits have become something of a handicap.
"It's something we have to cope with and hopefully learn to be better people and not get complacent," she said.
