Singapore men dress sloppily.
That's what famous French fashion designer Roland Mouret, who's usually in a jacket and tie, said recently in an interview with local media outlet Yahoo! Singapore.
The 50-year-old was in town last month to present his Autumn/Winter 2012 collection at the Audi Fashion Festival (AFF).
Based on what he saw at the St Regis Singapore hotel, where he stayed, he said: "It shocked me a bit... I see quite a lot of fashion disasters in this hotel, especially on men - the wrong shorts with the flip-flops.
"That's why you have to learn balance, to know what's for what moment."
Mouret also proposed that the government introduce a law whereby hotels are required to impose mandatory dress codes for guests.
But is Mouret's opinion, which has stirred up a hornets' nest of comments in cyberspace, justified?
HardwareZone forum user blurbloco retorted: "Who cares what (Mouret) thinks", before challenging him to face the local weather in his usual get-up without perspiring profusely.
Netizen Jiangjuajee posted: "This is Singapore and this is our culture that has evolved over time. Have respect for what we are."
Fellow HardwareZone forum user arcturuz added that there are Caucasians here who dress sloppily too.
Keyboard warrior Therover weighed in, saying: "Has (Mouret) considered the possibility - however remote - that the flip-flop (sic) people he saw in the hotel are guests of the hotel - i.e. tourists (or) foreigners?"
Ms Cheryl Ong, the director of sales and marketing at St Regis Singapore, said that the hotel encouraged a dress code that was both presentable and appropriate to its "luxury status".
She confirmed that Mouret had been a guest there, adding: "We understand that our guests need to dress comfortably for our climate, and do not impose dress codes in our lobby and public areas, which include the pool area.
"We do have a dress code for dining in our restaurants and bars, which adds to the shared dining experience of all guests."
But Mr Kenny Lim, a co-founder of local clothing label Depression, agreed with Mouret.
The 34-year-old said: "Local men generally lack a sense of dressing and grooming and that's coming from a local guy.
"For example, I see local men wearing slippers on Orchard Road, and that's a big no in my book. It's worse when the men are wearing pants (with the slippers).
"Local women are generally better dressed than the men as they are, by nature, more image-conscious."
Ms Tjin Lee, organiser of the AFF, admitted with a laugh that she and other Singaporeans, both men and women, could be guilty on occasion of dressing "too comfortably" when going out on weekends.
She said: "Roland's comments are certainly interesting from an objective point of view, especially as he's a visitor who's not familiar with our local culture.
"Every country has its fair share of both stylish and unstylish people. I do feel that Singaporeans are more stylishly dressed than, say, 10 years ago."
But Mr Lim felt that not all Singaporean men should be tarred with the same brush.
He added: "Not every guy can or should pull off an avant-garde look. We'll leave that for the true fashionistas out there.
"What matters is that the guys dress appropriately. You can dress in a very funky manner, but it will look bad if the look doesn't suit you at all."
Stomper LynnTeo98 pleaded with Singaporeans not to get worked up over Mouret's assessment, adding: "We Singaporeans have our own so-called 'fashion' sense, so what if it isn't to (Mouret)'s liking?
"I don't believe in following other people in fashion and how they dress. (What is) most important is your own creativity and originality (in dressing)."
