SEOUL - Four of the outfits Lady Gaga will wear for her upcoming concert in South Korea were unveiled Monday, including a leotard fashioned from guitars and a giant piano keyboard headpiece.
The US star will also show off the Giorgio Armani designed costumes in four other venues during her "Born This Way Ball" global tour kicking off in Seoul, said Shinsegae International, Armani's South Korean business partner.
The pop diva arrived in South Korea Friday, a week before her Seoul performance which kicks off a tour of Asian venues and 21 European cities.
The new wardrobes, in line with the singer's signature extravagant style, include a black bodysuit made of hundreds of glittering vinyl tubes sewn together with metal studs and glass pieces.
Another skimpy outfit is made of nets and fringes decorated with scores of crystal pieces and and sharp spikes.
Lady Gaga, who is well known for outrageous styles and provocative performances, will also wear a long, skin-coloured latex tunic punctuated with triangular structures over her chest and face.
South Korea banned those aged under 18 from the much-anticipated concert - her second in the nation - after it was rated unsuitable for younger audiences.
Religious groups have rallied against the event, accusing the singer of advocating homosexuality and pornography.
"The state-of-the-art outfits were made of materials... that epitomise the futuristic concept of this tour," Shinsegae said, adding the costumes will also be shown in Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia and New Zealand.
Lady Gaga, whose real name is Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta, is famous for the hit songs "Bad Romance" and "Poker Face".
The singer is expected to do 110 shows this year following up the success of her album "Born This Way", which has sold nearly six million copies worldwide since it was released in May 2011.
The professional provocateur, named one of top 100 most influential fashion icons by the US magazine Time, has wowed fans with shocking wardrobes ranging from a dress made of raw meat to a frock entirely made of plastic bubbles.
