THE hilarious skit was meant to be comic relief for all, but two of the actors being made fun of did not seem impressed.
Sunday's Star Awards Show 1, telecast live over Channel 8, featured a skit spoofing the cast of local dramas Devotion, A Song To Remember and Code Of Honour.
Not even the biggest and most popular names on Caldecott Hill were spared.
Zoe Tay, Chen Hanwei, Joanne Peh, Elvin Ng, Qi Yuwu and Eelyn Kok were all made fun of.
But Rui En and Zhang Yaodong didn't appear amused.
Rui En looked moody for the rest of the night, despite winning Favourite Female Character and Favourite Onscreen Couple with Ng.
In her acceptance speech, she said cryptically: &ldquo;We are here to film (dramas), not create news.&rdquo;
In the skit, TV host Quan Yifeng in an impressive career comeback since her scuffle with a taxi driver pretended to be Rui En and objected to filming a rape scene.
It was an obvious throwback to the controversy between Rui En and Zhang last August.
Back then, Zhang had talked to the media about a rape scene he did with Rui En in the drama On The Fringe.
Rui En, who was working in Malaysia then, immediately wrote a heated blog post, stressing the fact that she is against doing kissing and rape scenes.
That particular scene was in fact a failed rape attempt, she clarified.
She also hinted that Zhang had twisted the truth to try to make headlines and stay in the limelight.
Zhang subsequently told the media he had used the wrong words, adding that he is not a Chinese teacher who is precise about words.
He also said he felt wronged.
Last night, when reporters asked Rui En if she was offended, she replied with a curt &ldquo;No&rdquo;.
&ldquo;The skit provided entertainment value. I was prepared that (the controversy with Zhang) would be mentioned either in Star Awards Show 1 or Show 2,&rdquo; she said.
When The New Paper spoke to Zhang, he too was curt.
&ldquo;I don't think the skit went overboard. It was very funny. I'm okay with it because I don't think too much into it,&rdquo; he said.
Ironically, the two of them are filming the period drama Joys Of Life and have many scenes together.
How are relations between the two of them now?
Zhang replied in Mandarin: &ldquo;We were not familiar with each other (before the controversy). Now, we are even less familiar. We are still colleagues.&rdquo;
When asked the same question, Rui En said: &ldquo;Things are professional (between us). We are just doing our jobs.
&ldquo;There's nothing different and it's just the way I behave with everyone else.
&ldquo;To me, (the incident) is over. I think I'll work with him again (in the future), and why make things difficult for everyone?&rdquo;
The skit also exaggerated Qi Yuwu's deadpan expression and Joanne Peh's drawn-out enunciation in the drama A Night To Remember.
But Peh's reaction seemedmore genuine.
She told The New Paper she laughed so hard her cheeks hurt.
&ldquo;I wanted to roll on the floor in laughter. (Quan Yifeng) did the spoof so well. It was the most enjoyable part of the night.&rdquo;
Qi told us: &ldquo;Some people have said I look &lsquo;stoned out' in other dramas too. My acting isn't the exaggerated sort, I act from the heart.&rdquo;
The Queen of Caldecott Zoe Tay also did not mind that the infamous wrinkles around her eyes were spoofed.
Quan also played Tay and the skit exaggerated how her wrinkles were so deep that flies could be trapped there.
Tay told us: &ldquo;I laughed until my voice is now hoarse.&rdquo;
The night was a jolly affair bringing together former TV stars like Sharon Au, Zheng Wanling, Huang Biren, Chen Xiuhuan, Jacelyn Tay and Jack Neo. Some were dressed as their iconic TV characters.
TV stars Fann Wong, Christopher Lee, Jeanette Aw, Dai Yangtian, Chen Liping, and many others were also present.
It was hosted by Dasmond Koh, Lee Teng, Michelle Chia and Vivian Lai.
Star Awards Show 2 will be held this Sunday at Marina Bay Sands and will also be telecast live over Channel 8.
Favourite Male Character: Zhang Guixiang in C.L.I.F, played by Elvin Ng
Favourite Female Character: Zhang Yale in A Tale Of Two Cities, played by Rui En
Favourite On-screen Couple: Rui En and Elvin Ng in Code Of Honour
Favourite Variety Host: Bryan Wong
Systema Charming Smile Award: Elvin Ng
Rocket Award: Desmond Tan
Young Talent Award: Tan Jun Sheng for Love Thy Neighbour
Best Theme Song: Jue Jiang for the drama Devotion, performed by Kit Chan
Top Rated Drama Serial: Love Thy Neighbour
Top Rated Variety Programme: Food Source 2
Best Director: Chong Liung Man for C.L.I.F
Best Screenplay: Ang Eng Tee for On the Fringe and Chen Sew Khoon/Lau Chin Poon for The In-Laws
Best Variety Producer: Elaine See for Mission Possible
Best Variety Research Writer: Sheffie Liang for Rail Thrill
Best News Story: Evelyn Lam Li Ting for Nightingale Nursing Home
Best Current Affairs Story: Ng Toh Heong/Chun Guek Lay for Focus: 1911 Chinese Revolution - Sun Yat Sen and Singapore
Best Programme Promo: Renaissance by Ong Wan Jun
Best Drama Cameraman: Tommy Lee for A Song to Remember
Best Drama Set Design: Chen Jiagu for Bountiful Blessings
Best Drama Editing: Teo Pit Hong Joyce for On the Fringe
