TO PLAY a seducer of women in 19th-century Paris in the risque, cut-throat sex drama Bel Ami, Robert Pattinson had to get cosy with three hotties: Uma Thurman, Christina Ricci and Kristin Scott Thomas.
But if any of the actresses were thrilled to be in the nude with Mr Hottie, they didn't tell British directors Declan Donnellan and Nick Ormerod.
"I can assure you that filming a sex scene is the most unerotic thing in the whole world, when you've got 50 men standing around the cameras," Donnellan quipped in a phone interview from London.
Donnellan and Ormerod were well aware that they had a hot young star on their hands, as Pattinson was then making a name for himself in the Twilight series.
Asked if they were worried that Pattinson, who shot Bel Ami in 2010, would come with Edward Cullen baggage, Donnellan said: "Not in the least."
He added that when he and Ormerod approached Pattinson in 2008, Twilight had just opened and the mania had not yet begun. Even so, they were already confident of Pattinson's abilities.
"Robert is a very serious actor and...he insisted on rehearsing for a whole month before we shot the first frame of the movie. That's very unusual. He did that because he takes his acting very seriously," said Donnellan.
He added with a chuckle that Pattinson didn't flinch when he was asked not to shave his chest hair in the lead-up to filming, in order to maintain authenticity.
The film - based on an 1885 novel about sexual subversion by French writer Guy de Maupassant - stars Pattinson as Georges Duroy, a former soldier who engineers his rise from poverty by becoming the object of desire of three wealthy and powerful society women. Think Dangerous Liaisons politics as Pattinson bed-hops through lovers played by Thurman, Ricci and Thomas.
Donnellan and Ormerod have been working together for 30 years in their theatre company, Cheek By Jowl. Bel Ami marks their first film project together. Donnellan, 58, directed the actors while Ormerod, 60, designed the look of the movie.
"We couldn't understand how one person could handle the whole thing," Donnellan joked. In the end, the big issue Bel Ami raises is how a man can be presented as a sex object.
On this, Donnellan said: "Sexism always seems to work in one direction, but life is much more complicated than that. "Men can use women for sex just as women can use men for sex, too."
