Celebrity illusionist Cyril Takayama will encounter his biggest challenge yet - coping with family on a trip.
Viewers will get to see their antics on the six-part series Cyril's Family Vacation: Hawaii Edition, which airs next week.
The 38-year-old American of French-Japanese descent first made his name by uploading clips of himself performing street magic on YouTube.
For his latest project, he and his brood - namely, Grandma Magi, Uncle Richard and Cousin Tiny - traipsed around Hawaii unleashing their tricks on passers-by.
But shhh, here's a secret: Grandma Magi, Uncle Richard, Cousin Tiny and Takayama himself were, in fact, one person.
my paper catches up with Takayama to try and get inside his head.
What made you decide to go on this family vacation?
Well, first of all, I've been working very hard this past year. I've been working all the time on lots of television programmes. It was time to take a vacation.
I felt very isolated from my family, and I thought, "What a great opportunity! I will take my entire family on a vacation to Hawaii."
So, after being stuck with one another for six weeks, who is your favourite family member?
(Laughs) Each of my family members is unique and has his or her own merit.
Grandma Magi is loved by everyone. She's the matriarch. She's the queen bee.
She helps me connect with the family in a way that I wasn't able to in the past.
She has to be my favourite.
Cousin Tiny isn't tiny at all. He's a very colourful character. (Laughs) With him, I can be the child that I couldn't be.
I like Uncle Richard because he reminds me of who I will be 30 years from now.
He helps me to be more like him. Unlike me, he's very debonair.
What were some challenges you faced during this vacation?
My Grandma Magi often went to the men's room! I think her age is getting to her, and she loses track of where to go. (Laughs)
oonlisa@sph.com.sg
Cyril's Family Vacation: Hawaii Edition premieres next Thursday. It airs every Thursday at 9pm. It will be aired first and exclusively on AXN (StarHub TV Ch 511).
