PETALING JAYA - They may be gruff and grumpy sometimes, but like the lovable ogre Shrek, dads are usually just big softies under that tough exterior.
So, what better way to celebrate the man in our lives than by spending an ogre-ific night out with the whole family at Shrek The Musical.
With Fathers Day just around the corner, the show's ability to wow both children and adults with its humour, music and visual effects makes it a perfect family entertainment.
Based on the 2001 Oscar-winning animated movie Shrek, the musical revolves around the reviled ogre Shrek, who falls for the spunky and beautiful Princess Fiona.
Chock-full of hilarious one-liners and endearing characters like Donkey, The Gingerbread Man and Pinocchio, the magical adventure also features spectacular set pieces, such as a 7.5m-long dragon puppet.
Having premiered on New York's Broadway in 2008, Shrek The Musical is currently playing in London's West End; the Kuala Lumpur staging is a touring production that is being presented by Yvents!.
American entertainment magazine Variety, in its review of the Broadway show, praised "the mischievous humour in David Lindsay-Abaire's book and lyrics".
The review went on to laud "the busy visuals and gargantuan set-pieces (that) never overwhelm the personalities of the actors or their characters".
The Independent's review of the West End staging, meanwhile, said: "To judge from the giddy glee and hilarity the London version of Shrek The Musical is arousing in its early audiences, it looks likely that we are going to be clutching the all-green, all-singing ogre in a warm embrace for quite some time."
Shrek The Musical will be staged at the Plenary Hall, Kuala Lumpur Convention Centre, from June 19 to 24. The show is supported by the Tourism Ministry and the Malaysia Convention and Exhibition Bureau, with The Star as media partner.
Tickets, priced at RM190, RM290, RM390, RM490 and RM590 (excluding RM3 ticketing fee), are available from TicketsPeople at 03-2287 2727, ticketspeople.com or at the information counter at Bangsar Village, Kuala Lumpur.
HSBC credit card holders will enjoy a 10% to 15% discount.
Check out the story on the actors who play Donkey and Lord Farquaad supporting characters of Shrek The Musical in today's Star2.
