INDIA - Throwing in the towel on a burgeoning law career would send most Indian parents into cardiac arrest, but when Pallavi Sharda - gainfully employed as a lawyer in Melbourne - decided to follow her passion for dancing and acting, packed her bags and moved to Mumbai at the tail-end of 2008 to get a foothold in Hindi cinema, her parents supported her move.
And their faith in her seems to have borne some fruit... she is currently the leading lady in the upcoming Indian musical Taj Express. Sharda plays Meera, the childhood sweetheart of Vasu (played by Pulkit Samrat) who has run away from home to be with the man of her dreams.
They both board the Taj Express separately and the romance, the drama as well as the singing and dancing ensues.
The musical is produced by Shruti Merchant with her siblings Bollywood choreographer Vaibhavi and brother Pranav and is set to make its world premiere in Singapore from June 6 to 10 at the Esplanade Theatre.
"I was getting bored with my work and dreaming about performing," said the trained bharatanatyam dancer of more than 15 years, who has degrees in law, media and communications as well as French from the University of Melbourne.
She speaks Hindi as well - it is her mother tongue - using it frequently when conversing with her parents who moved to Australia in 1984.
And like most children of the Indian diaspora, Sharda is a chameleon especially where her accents are concerned.
She can flip between her Aussie twang and the Indian accent easily which she demonstrated to this reporter over the telephone from Mumbai.
It is all about adapting to the environment, she said: "I used to switch when I was speaking with my parents and my friends. I do that now when I am speaking with the Indian press."
Besides this musical, Sharda has a growing resume of varied productions.
Her first movie role was an independent film called Walkaway which she shot for in New York and was released in 2010.
When she returned to India she did theatre before landing a film role opposite Manoj Bajpayee in Dus Tola, which was her debut Bollywood film.
She also managed to find time to be crowned Miss India Australia in 2010 and took the Fresh Look title at the Miss India Worldwide competition held in Durban, South Africa, the same year.
Last year, Sharda was part of the 2011 film Love, Breakups, Zindagi produced by Dia Mirza and Zayed Khan.
She has also just wrapped up an Australia production called Save My Legs for the Melbourne International Film Festival.
Moving back to Taj Express, she admits she came into the musical rather late in the game... after going through several rounds of auditions and when most of the roles had been cast.
"In one audition, Vaibhavi Merchant played one of the songs and I improvised a dance on it. I really tried to listen to it and free-styled it. That was a really magical experience for me," she said.
It must have also impressed the Merchant sisters enough to cast her in the lead role.
Despite being a trained dancer, she said she did find learning the various Indian folk dances challenging.
But the show's depiction of the country's vast cultural landscape was its selling point for her.
"Taj Express is the epitome of what I am trying to do, to be a part of a production that caters to a global audience. This production is world class and works on the same standards as Broadway and West End," she said.
