Big Daddy Entertainment, the local promoter who organized US pop diva Lady Gaga's concert in Jakarta, will likely suffer huge financial losses after law enforcement agencies refused to issue a permit for the singer's performance in the capital.
Senior concert promoter Adrie Subono, founder of the Java Musikindo, said that usually a month before the concert will be held, a local promoter has already paid 50 percent of the down-payment to the artist's management.
Gaga is slated to hold her concert at the Bung Karno Stadium in Senayan, Central Jakarta on June 3, but the National Police declared that they would not issue a permit for the singer's concert in the capital on Tuesday.
"If the host cancelled the planned event one month before the scheduled date, the money that they had paid to the artist's management will not be reimbursed," Adrie said as quoted by tempo.co.
Java Musikindo is a local promoter who had invited a number of foreign artists to perform in Indonesia in the past, including high-profile American diva Mariah Carey.
Adrie added that Big Daddy would also suffer financial loss because they had to refund the tickets that had already been sold.
More than 30,000 tickets priced from Rp 465,000 (US$50.75) to Rp 2.25 million have been sold for the gig since sales opened on March 10.
Representatives of Big Daddy Entertainment have so far refused to make an official statement over the cancellation issue.
Grammy-award winning Gaga is scheduled to perform at Bung Karno Main Stadium in Senayan, Central Jakarta, as one of the first stops on her world tour, titled "The Born This Way Ball", slated to run from April to October.
Gaga has sparked strong opposition from groups such as the Indonesian Ulema Council (MUI), Islam Defenders Front (FPI) and the United Development Party (PPP).
The PPP is an Islamic party that holds 38 out of the 560 seats at the House of Representatives.
Over the years, several foreign performers have cancelled their previously scheduled concerts in Indonesia for various reasons, but not one of them was banned by law enforcement agencies.
