Family dramas aren't really part of my television diet.
But watching family members embroiled in bitter spats on TV is what I do at Grandma's place, ironically.
There the goggle-box is almost always tuned in to infamously long-drawn Taiwanese productions of the likes of Love and Night Market Life.
So you can't blame me when I cringed at the thought of reviewing a Korean family drama called Ojakgyo Family.
However, a quick online check on the show allayed my fears. Ojakgyo Family was one of the most-watched shows in South Korea last year, and its cast have won numerous awards.
Curiosity piqued, I embarked on a mission to finish as many episodes I could possibly digest of the 58-parter.
In a nutshell, the plot revolves around the Hwang family, their Ojakgyo farm and spoilt brat Baek Ja Eun - who lays claim to the farm after her wealthy father goes missing.
To be honest, the first few episodes were a drag and had me hitting the fast-forward button multiple times.
Take, for instance, the episode where the chirpy Mother Hwang turns annoyingly sulky upon finding out the truth: that the farm she has toiled on for a decade doesn't belong to the family, but to Ja Eun's father.
Or the high-pitched screaming matches that break out when Ja Eun confronts the Hwangs about the farm.
Then, surprisingly, the drama started to grow on me as the plot unfolds and the characters start to acquire depth.
The drama's scriptwriter brilliantly evokes a mixed bag of feelings in the audience, such that you can't feel sorry for or angry with the Hwangs or Ja Eun for long.
One moment, your blood boils when Ja Eun throws her weight around like a pampered princess. The next, sympathy floods in when she gets pelted with eggs as mean schoolmates taunt her about unfounded rumours.
The drama is comedy, romance and action all rolled into one.
Action and eye-candy material is found in the form of the third son, Hwang Tae Hee, a zealous cop determined to investigate a scandal that so happens to be linked to Ja Eun.
The dramatic encounters between Tae Hee and Ja Eun in the first few episodes give the audience an inkling that there's more to come.
To me, the good-looking pair are the icing on the cake, and could be the leads in an idol drama. Tae Hee is played by promising actor Joo Won and Ja Eun is played by Uee, the leggy beauty from sexy girl group After School.
The rookies' acting has not only garnered them rave reviews, but also awards for best new actor and actress.
Nine episodes into the drama, and I'm pretty much sold.
Ojakgyo Family is nothing like my usual fare of idol dramas where the suave prince sweeps you off your feet almost immediately.
Watching the drama is like getting to know the family over a meal, slowly but surely.
