KUALA LUMPUR - South Korean celebrity chef Edward Kwon is so taken by Malaysian cuisine that he has set his heart on opening his next restaurant here.
"Malaysia is an amazing melting pot of cultures where all sorts of cuisine and ingredients are easily available. It's a wonderful place to explore fusion cuisine," Kwon said at the launch of his regional TV series EdVentures In Asia at the Hilton KL.
Now airing on Life Inspired TV, the 13- episode series is a collaboration with Star Publications (Malaysia) Bhd and presented by Malayan Banking Berhad.
Apart from Malaysia, the travelogue took Kwon to the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Vietnam, Japan, Hong Kong, Macau, Mongolia, China, Thailand, Jakarta, India and Singapore.
Described as the Jamie Oliver of Asia, the chatty chef with pop star good looks went on to prepare a four-course lunch for some 80 guests at the KL media luncheon.
Among those present were Maybank deputy president and head of community financial services Lim Hong Tat and chief marketing officer Adam Wee Abdullah, Star Publications executive deputy chairman Datuk Vincent Lee and group managing director and CEO Ho Kay Tat.
Li TV Asia general manager Anne Chan praised Chef Kwon as a unique personality with a strong passion for making good Korean food accessible to everyone.
"When he walked into the room, we immediately knew he was the chef we were looking for to helm our programme," she said.
According to Lim, the collaboration was part of Maybank's efforts to add value to their customers' lifestyles.
"It also echoes our mission to humanise financial services across the region as the series enriches people's lives and brings us closer to the heart of communities," he added.
Maybank customers stand a chance to watch Kwon in action and taste his culinary creations at an upcoming exclusive dinner event here in September.
"They can do this by signing up for selected Maybank products or becoming the top credit card spenders from now till July 31," said Lim.
Kwon, the former head chef of the world's only seven-star hotel Burj al-Arab in Dubai, now runs three restaurants in South Korea Eddy's Caf in Gangnam, Lab XXIV (Lab Twenty-Four) in Cheongdam-Dong and The Mixed One in Hannam-Dong.
Besides EdVentures In Asia, he has also helmed other TV shows such as Edward's Live Kitchen, Challenge Star Chefs and Yes Chef.
Currently South Korea's tourism ambassador as well as the global goodwill ambassador for its capital Seoul, Kwon has recently launched his own kitchenware series and has plans to open a free cooking school in Korea.
The 40-year-old chef, who is married with two sons, has cooked for celebrities like Madonna, Pierce Brosnan, Tiger Woods, Maria Sharapova, Barbra Streisand and former US president George W. Bush.
Tomorrow, Kwon will do live interviews on Star's English language radio stations Red FM 104.9 from 7.30am to 8.30am and Capital FM 88.9 from 9am to 10am.
EdVentures In Asia is now airing on Li TV (Astro B.yond Ch 706) at 9pm every Sunday, simultaneously with Hong Kong.
For details on the exclusive dinner with Chef Kwon, contact Maybank (maybank2u.com / 1300 88 6688) or Life Inspired (litvchannel.com / 03-7665 1239).
