A series of exhibitions, concerts, performances and lectures will be presented as part of the 2012 Latin American Cultural Festival under way across Seoul.
Under the slogan "Latin fever, meets Korea," the festival is a part of cross cultural exchange programs designed to celebrate the 50th year of diplomatic ties between Korea and some 20 Latin American countries, organizers said. In turn, Korean culture including K-pop, arts and performances will be introduced to Latin American countries throughout the year.
A photo exhibition entitled "Photograph and Identity: A View from Latin America and the Caribbean," kicked off the festival last week at KF's gallery on the second floor of Center One Building in Euljiro, Seoul.
The exhibition consisted of three parts -- Realism, Reality Estrangement and Other Realism -- defining Latin America and the Caribbean through the eyes of 15 photographers from different countries. Participating artists include Joao Paulo Barbosa from Brazil, Cecilia Avendano Bobillier from Chile and Joaquin Murillo from Costa Rica.
Another photo exhibition introducing famous tourism sites in 13 Latin American countries plus video screenings that show K-pop fever on the other side of the globe, will be held in the lobby of Theater Yong at the National Museum of Korea May 31-June 3.
Performances and concerts by Korean and Latin American artists invite the audience to the world of passionate, rhythmic Latin music and dance from May 26-June 3. Renowned dancers Carlos Facundo Risso and Carolina Sosa will perform Argentine tango on May 31 and June 2-3 at Theater Yong. Bambu Ensemble, with six musicians playing strings, flutes and the traditional percussion of the Bambu region of Ecuador, also comes to Korea to perform for the first time. The ensemble will play music about the lives and values of the Montubios, peasants of Ecuador's coastal region.
Jamaican reggae group C-sharp, famous for its hit song "No More," will sing for the Korean audience on May 27, May 31 and June 2-3.
Other artists include Mexico's Mariachi Gallos, a group of travelling musicians playing wind instruments, strings and guitars; Vai Vai, an acclaimed group of samba dancers from Brazil; and Valtinho Anastacio, a Bossa Nova artist from Brazil.
Creole from Colombia will also bring traditional Caribbean music originated from the Providensia and Sand Andres islands in the Caribbean Sea.
The Latin American artists will perform not only in Seoul but also in two other venues out of the city.
Creole, C-sharp and the tango team from the Argentina will also perform in Bonghwangdae Music Square in Gyeongju on June 1 while Bambu Ensemble from Ecuador, Mariach from Mexico and Vai Vai from Brazil stage their performances at UNICEF Eco Stage at Nami Island near Chuncheon, Gangwon Province, on June 3.
Lectures on Latin American culture are also offered by the Korea Foundation's Culture Center.
On May 22, 24 and 26, lectures on Latin American art, music and performing arts will take place at KF's culture center at 2 p.m. Educational Programs on Latin American culture for children and teens will be held at KF's gallery from May 22-31.
Ahn Jin-ok, renowned Korean expert on Latin arts and also CEO of Gallery Banditrazos, and Kim Se-kwon, professor at Gangwon National University, will hold separate lectures on Latin American arts and festivals at the National Museum of Korea on June 3. From June 1-3, Latin American food including tacos and quesadillas are offered in front of the Theater Yong.
All programs are free. The festival runs through June 9.
For more information, visit www.latinfestival.kr or call Latin American Cultural Festival Operation Office at (070) 8230-1201 or Culture and Arts Dept. of Korea Foundation at (02) 2151-6520.
