SINGAPORE - Made my wish to be a superstar, sings Ms Ho Yeow Sun in her English single, Fancy Free.
Ten years ago, Ms Ho, 42, who goes by the stage name Sun Ho, embarked on her secular music career as part of the Crossover Project to reach out to non-Christians.
Now, her music career is part of the focus in the investigations against individuals from the City Harvest Church.
The Commissioner of Charities had found financial irregularities of at least $23 million from the church's funds which were allegedly used with the purported intention of bankrolling Ms Ho's career.
On Wednesday, her husband Kong Hee and four church office-bearers were charged in court with the alleged misuse of the funds.
Notwithstanding the case before the courts, can someone buy his or her way to stardom? And how far can money get you in the music industry?
Industry insiders here and in the US told The New Paper that while money is important in gaining a foothold, talent will be the decisive factor in carving out a successful long-term career.
Mr Ngiam Kwang Hwa, managing director of Mandarin music label Rock Records, said: "Money can definitely bring you in, but money can't sustain you. You won't go far if you don't have talent.
"I don't believe that you can groom anyone without any star quality or talent... It depends on what you can offer to the consumer to sustain your music career."
American Robert A. Case, a music career consultant who owns two music publishing companies, said: "I know of people who have millions and millions of dollars, who throw money in as entertainers. And they've failed."
Asked how much it would cost to break into the US market, Mr Gingio Muehlbauer, founder of international music consultancy MC-Input.com, said that in the pop music scene, it would cost close to US$3 million (S$3.8 million) for the full works, from producing an album to marketing the singer.
Then, there are also the costs of collaborating with top names in the industry to draw more eyeballs and gain recognition.
Mr Jerry Lembo, president of Jerry Lembo Entertainment Group, said that most notable producers are represented by an agent or manager, and their time, availability and fees would be negotiated by them.
The costs of hiring these producers, he added, would most likely be included in the record label's recording budget.
Mr Muehlbauer said that hiring a top artiste, producer or musicians can cost anything from US$10,000 up to "hundreds of thousands", depending on how well-known they are.
And there are additional costs if you want a collaborating artiste to appear on the video or perform as a guest in concerts, he added.
Besides having talent and financial backing, success in the music industry also often depends on who you know and the relationships you build.
Mr Peng Chi Sheng, a local musician and director of Intune Music School, said: "One of the most important things is who you know.
"Just a call from the right person and you could get linked up to other people."
Mr Muehlbauer said that attending major conferences or events such as the Grammy Awards and big private parties is a great way to get noticed.
He added: "You can pay to get into some of these events. But most of them are by invitation only, so it always comes down to who you know."
Mr Case had this piece of advice for foreign artists who want to break into the US market.
"It doesn't matter if you are from a foreign country. The key to success is to be successful in your own country first," he said.
"Create a buzz in own country or region first, then other countries will take you seriously."
