The plot thickens.
That is one way of putting things when it comes to HBO's excellent mediaeval fantasy drama, Game Of Thrones. The series is just as addictive as the books by George R. R. Martin - and just as gory.
There is constant flaying, throat-cutting and disembowelling. Now, in the season's opener, we see babies being killed as the child-king Joffrey Baratheon (Jack Gleeson) gives his men the order to hunt down and kill his father's bastard children.
Viewers know, by the way, that he is no Baratheon, but rather the product of an incestuous union between his schemer of a mother, Cersei Lannister (Lena Headey), and her twin brother Jaime (Nikolaj Coster-Waldau).
Between the beheading, blood-letting and such juicy tales, there's plenty of reason to love this Golden Globe- and Emmy Award-winning series.
Last season ended with the unexpected beheading of Eddard Stark, the noblest of the lot and the series' anchor. Now, his children are scattered across the lands.
Bloody this season will remain as the eldest Stark, Robb (Richard Madden), declares himself the King in the North and as he seeks vengeance for his father's murder.
And everyone is hotter for a crown than ever.
Where Robb wishes to be reunited with his family and to be left in peace in his lands, Daenerys is making her way to Westeros - where the Lannisters lie in wait - with her dragons, to stake her claim, making you fear for her future.
Here's another truth about this politics-at-swordpoint series: Good people die.
This you would know with a heart-sinking surety if you've read Martin's books.
If you haven't, you already get the feeling that Robb isn't meant to last. That direwolf of his - both the beast that walks by his side and the beast on his banner - is too strong for now.
And in these Games, the scales tip quickly.
Robb's mother, the loyal Catelyn (Michelle Fairley), must watch her eldest son ride into a battle that seems without end. Her plight doesn't bear thinking about.
But let's just say that the soldiers of the Lord of Light may have something to do with the Starks in the end, whether it be in this season or the next and - to be even more cryptic - whether it be in this life or the next.
As the stories flash from character to character, you want Daenerys, more than anyone, to find some luck.
In the first season, she suffered the death of a husband and child even as she rose to power in personal, political and even mystical ways.
But keep your eye on the Emmy-winning Peter Dinklage as Tyrion Lannister, the witty dwarf brother of Cersei and Jamie.
"If I told you to murder an infant girl still at her mother's breast, would you do it without question?" he asks his mercenary.
"Without question? No. I'd ask how much," is the reply.
The discomfort in Tyrion's eyes tells you he might be in danger of growing a soul.
Alas, you know that in Westeros, even the half-decent guys don't last and you ought not get too attached.
In this complex struggle of dynasties, good deeds and honour are worth less than nothing, and life, you see, is so very fleeting.
But you never learn. All it does is leave you wanting more - much more - of it all.
