HONG KONG - After 30 minutes with Japanese actor Joe Odagiri, you realise he doesn't play the celebrity game.
First clue: the broodingly handsome man turned up for an interview and photo shoot in Hong Kong last month with awful dark circles under his eye.
The usual star would have masked such imperfections with some make-up.
The 36-year-old again didn't bother with concealer when he turned up that night as an award presenter at the 6th Asian Film Awards, one of the events in the annual Entertainment Expo Hong Kong.
In the interview attended by international media, the cool Odagiri, who starred in movies like My Way (2011) and Shinobi: Heart Under Blade (2005), said through a translator he has no beauty regime.
"I don't do anything. I drink every night and I smoke," he said.
And when asked how he felt about being a presenter at the award ceremony, he said nonchalantly: "There's no need (for me) to be here.
"(The organisers) invited me, and since I'm here in Hong Kong (for a holiday), I might as well (attend the ceremony)."
Many stars would consider such honesty and political incorrectness fatal to their public image.
Odagiri, who was recently reported to have separated from his actress wife Yu Kashii, also didn't give reporters fanciful replies that would hog headlines.
Instead, he was quiet and gave vague replies, often requiring further probing.
This reporter asked if Japanese women dig brooding guys like himself, and if they have done anything crazy for him.
That got him laughing.
"What do Singapore women like?" he asked instead.
"Maybe you should go next door (where Japanese actress-model Karina was giving an interview) and ask her, you'll get a clearer answer."
Odagiri then replied that Japanese fans are mild-mannered and not as crazy as overseas fans.
Professing to be a homely person who "cleans and tidies" his home during his leisure time, he added that he has "never gone picnicking or out for car rides".
His English-speaking manager then stopped further questions about his life outside work.
"His private life is private. He doesn't talk about what he does at home," she told us.
But Odagiri was just as reticent when talking about his work.
He is now filming the Japanese TV comedy Kazoku no Uta, translated as Song Of The Family, where he plays a former rock star who suddenly finds out he has three daughters.
Odagiri told us he's a pessimistic person, not comedic, and therefore is more suited for dark movies. Why choose to do Kazoku no Uta then, and how does he prepare for the role?
Odagiri replied: "It's not only cheery people who can do comedy. As long as I have an idea (of the character), I can immerse myself in the role."
