MALAYSIA - The film industry has never had it so good. Several movies have found themselves making big money at the box office.
Many new talents have been unearthed and many young directors are coming out of nowhere, injecting excitement into the reel world.
One of the promising young directors is Arjin Uppal.
Only 22, Arjin starting dabbling in the "film world" when he was in his teens. He would help his father, television producer and director Baldev Singh direct TV programmes and dramas.
"My dad always brings me and my brother along. We would watch him work behind the camera. One day, he asked us to sit behind it," said Arjin.
Indeed, Arjin not only has his father but also his elder brother Harvinder to thank. Harvinder, who helped his father in movies such as Akhirat and Rasuk, has been instrumental in Arjin's involvement in show business.
"Arjin is very creative. I prefer to do the business side. I'm just happy to be working alongside him," said Harvinder.
Asked if he was protective of his brother, Harvinder smiled and nodded.
"Even at school, no one dared to bully him because I was around," said Harvinder, who stands at an imposing 1.95m.
Born and bred in Kuala Lumpur, Arjin, who is slightly shorter at 1.85m, joined LimKokWing University of Creative Technology after finishing school, where he earned his Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in animation and visual effects.
In 2007, he joined City &amp; Guilds and became the first owner of a certificate in 3D animation.
His first big project saw him assuming the role of assistant director when he and his father directed and produced the movie, Kecoh Betul. Arjin was only 19 then.
The comedy, which featured Nabil, Saiful Apek, Bell Ngasri and Diana Danielle, did reasonably well, collecting RM2.5 million (S$1.03 million).
Then, he moved to Sydney, Australia, where he made an about-turn. He trained for a commercial pilot licence and successfully obtained it.
"Yes, in Sydney, I did all the crazy stuff like flying. I thought it might be good for our future action movies. Besides, Malaysian movies hardly used planes," said Arjin.
While training for his CLP licence, Arjin had a lot of free time. He would watch three to four movies a day to keep his creative juices flowing.
Arjin recently completed work on his first and biggest solo directorial effort, Kerat 14. No, this is not another horror movie (thank you, Arjin) but a psycho-thriller about a murder and its aftermath.
"We want to introduce a new genre through Kerat 14. There is no element of horror in it, but more of unsolved mystery, suspense-thriller and action. This movie unravels what happens from 9pm to early the next morning," said Arjin.
"Making this movie was a real challenge, especially the car chase scenes. Since we wanted to make them as real as possible, the shoots were done in Kuala Lumpur Middle Ring Road 2 and Jalan Kuching. We wanted the audience to see the real thing and not something that was set up. That meant the public was indirectly involved, too.
"At one time, an accident happened on the opposite side. So, there was a traffic jam. We had a host of other challenges to contend with, but we managed. We used three to four cameras for different angles.
"We even shot when it rained. For this, we have to thank the police for giving their 100 per cent commitment.
"Some of the car chases were done by the police personnel themselves. They did all the skidding scenes. Without them, the scenes would not have been as authentic."
He also has a strong cast - Aaron Aziz and Siti Saleha - for Kerat 14. After wowing TV3 viewers with their stirring performances in the Nora Elena drama series, Kerat 14 is their first collaboration on the silver screen.
"I'm happy to have Aaron on board. I chose him because of his ability to play any kind of character. He can play aggressive roles and look good at the same time.
"Aaron is an old hand at movies but this is Siti Saleha's debut movie. The two have such great chemistry on the screen," said Arjin.
"I have nothing but praises for Siti Saleha's commitment to the movie. She gave her best at all times. I believe she is the next best thing. We are signing her again for our projects."
Kerat 14 also stars Zamarul Hisham, Fauziah Gous, Ali Arami and Arrora Salwa.
Arjin estimates that the movie, which costs RM1.8 million to produce, will be screened at the end of the year. It is now in the post-production stage.
Arjin has more projects in the pipeline.
"We want to roll out our next movie in June or July and one more at the end of the year. Two years from now, we hope to direct and produce an English movie with an international cast. It is going to be our most massive undertaking. I would like to see our movies making it big on international shores. I hope Finas can help us.
"On a more personal note, my brother and I hope to make our dad proud of our work. He is our best critic. If he is not happy about something in the movie, he would tell us and we would do something about it. He is experienced. Dad knows best!"
