As part of the Singapore Arts Festival, Soorya Singapore will be presenting for the first time, Theyyam, a very traditional and ritualistic art form from Kerala.
Performed and practised in the Malabar region of the state, Theyyam, a combination of the words Deivam (god) and attam (dance), combines music, vocal recitations and dance coupled with awesome costumes and intricate make-up which takes the artistes about six to seven hours to put on. This form of performance has been in practice for thousands of years, says Dr Chitra Krishnakumar of Soorya Singapore.
There are about 450 Theyyams in Kerala and Soorya Singapore is bringing in the most striking ones.
"We will be bringing in 11 Kerala artistes who are Theyyam performers and while we will not be showing the ritualistic portion of the performance, the artistic parts are fantastic," said Dr Krishnakumar.
Since the costumes, which depict the various Hindu gods, are huge, the artistes will be bringing in the materials and assembling them in Singapore.
"Everything is done by the artistes themselves, from the costumes to the make-up," she said.
For this arts festival, the artistes will be performing four Theyyam forms: Muchilot Bhaghavathy, Raktha Chamundy, Vishnumoorthy and Agnikandakarnan, a fire Theyyam.
Besides the Theyyam performance, Soorya Singapore is also presenting a tribute to Mohd Rafi in song and dance as part of the same festival.
Through a repertoire of classical and contemporary dance forms using his popular film songs, the group will pay homage to the man with the golden voice, still considered one of the top playback singers of his time.
Choreographed by Soorya Krishnamoorthy, it will feature bharatnatyam dancer Dakshina Vaidyanathan, kathak performer Pandit Rajendra Gangani and contemporary dance troup Samudra Dancers accompanied on vocals by Zia Ul Haq and Sheela Mani.
Theyyam-Dance of the Gods is on from May 24 to 25 at the Main Stage, Festival Village, Esplanade Park. Admission is free.
Pranamam - Ode To The Legend, Tribute To Mohammed Rafi will be on May 20 at 7.30pm at the DBS Auditorium, 6 Shenton Way. Tickets at $60, $35, $20 are available at www.sooryafest.org
