In the upcoming stage production Happy Ever Laughter, 12 of Singapore's best comedians come together for an unprecedented marathon of stand-up comedy. So in the spirit of laughter and gaiety, we asked six of the comics to recall the worst, most painful, most depressing moments of their lives. After all, even comics get the blues.
Best known as ditzy Barbarella from The Noose
I love eating onions with satay or in salads. But besides giving me onion breath, onions also give me lethal onion gas.
On my birthday in 2007, I was hosting a food show and we were featuring dishes with onions. I tried to avoid eating the onions as I was celebrating with my boyfriend that evening. He was making dinner and I didn't want to reek of onion breath or worse, pass gas the whole night. But the producer insisted that I take a few bites of the onions in every dish to talk about the taste. So I ended up eating a lot of onions that day.
That evening, when I went to my boyfriend's place, he blindfolded me and said he had a surprise for me. He sat me down and went to get the first dish out.
While he was preparing the soup in the kitchen, I had the uncontrollable urge to pass gas. I thought I'd better do it quickly before he came back, so I raised my butt cheek and let out a loud one while talking to him to make sure he's still in the kitchen.
The smell was unbelievably horrid and I used my handbag to fan it around to try to disperse it. Then I remembered my onion breath. I read that the only accurate way to tell whether you have bad breath is to lick your hand and smell it, so I did just that. I thought my hand smelt okay because I had gargled with mouthwash before I came to the house.
My boyfriend came back with the soup and took off my blindfold. I had 20 people staring at me shouting, "Surprise!" I never ate onions again after that, and that birthday was the worst day of my life.
Portly patriarch from Under One Roof
I've always been happy with the fact that I was born a man. One winter in Beijing, the weather was so cold and dry, I wore a red woollen cap and layers of winter clothes that made me look like a big bak chang (rice dumpling).
As one doesn't perspire much during winter, one tends to visit the toilet frequently. So that day at a restaurant, I had an urgent need to use the male toilet.
While I was doing my business at the urinal, I could hear a man outside the male toilet asking the cleaner why she had let a woman into the male's toilet.
There was no one else at the urinal but me, so when I came out, I told him I am not a woman - I am a man.
He looked shocked. He told me only women in Beijing wear red round woollen caps - so why was I wearing one?
I replied, "If I'm a woman, how can I stand at the urinal and pee?"
The same mistake happened again in South Korea. I was in a department store standing close to a cosmetics counter, when a salesman came up to me and asked: "Auntie, do you want some hot tea?" Aiyoh! Do I really look like a woman? Is it my pretty eyelashes or my sweet smile? Does my voice sound very auntie? If you ask me to choose between looking like a woman or a bak chang, I choose bak chang.
"Best in Singapore and JB and some say Batam"
When I was young, I was always eager to prove that I was not stupid. So when I was nine years old, the Society of Prevention of Cruelty against Animals (SPCA) came to my school to talk about caring for animals.
Now it was the question-and-answer part that got me all excited. There was a chance to win prizes if I could answer the questions. For me, it was an opportunity to show the whole school how brainy I was.
The SPCA started with the first question: "What do cats drink?" My hand shot up faster than you can say "teacher's pet". Beaming with pride because I had the fastest hand, I stood up and shouted: "MILK!"
There was silence in the air. The hall was so quiet, you could hear the cockroaches mate on the ceiling. The SPCA person turned red in the face, then said: "Well, my question was 'What do cats eat' - not drink."
The whole school burst into laughter and pointed fingers at me. It was the most humiliating day of my life. I really felt like crying, though that would make things worse.
Now when I look back at it, I wish I had a time machine so I could fly back in time and tell that little boy, "Don't cry. There'll be many, many more humiliating moments in your life - especially those involving girls."
The Hokkien-swearing, tap-dancing Broadway Beng
When I was a boy, I had always wanted to win a sports trophy - any sports trophy. I come from a family of four boys: I'm the youngest and my three older brothers have all won sports trophies in school - except me. We have a whole shelf at home dedicated to sports trophies that all my brothers and parents have ever won.
I remain the only one in the family whose name was not on that shelf. Truth is, I was a fat kid and not fit enough to get into any sports group in school.
The chance finally came when I was in Primary 4 and the school shot put (random throwing of an iron ball) team was in need of members. Shot put was not a popular sport and they were desperate for players. Somehow they associate "fat" with "good shot put player". Being a big fat boy, I got on the team instantly.
Now I trained hard. I threw hard.
Our school sports day finally arrived and I was desperate for a shot at a trophy - bronze, silver or, best, gold. The competition began and I threw the iron balls with all my might.
But alas! I came in fourth in the competition. I was crestfallen and went home empty-handed. When my family heard about my near-miss, they all tried to console me. My mother said (in Hokkien): "Well, at least you came in fourth in the whole competition."
I looked at my mother and said (in Hokkien), "But Ma. There were only four players in the competition."
That was the saddest day of my life - that and the day when my dog, Happy, died.
Juiciest dim sum in the performing trio Dimsum Dollies
It was Christmas time and my cousin had asked me to join a carolling group that would go out to carol and give gifts to underprivileged children and old folk in homes. I thought I'd go home to have a quick dinner before meeting the choir.
I was in a good mood, so I skipped, I hopped, I fell 16 steps down the flight at the bottom of my flat. Even though no one was around, I bounced up pretending like there was no pain at all. But I did feel pain in my upper front teeth. And when I came home, my mum screamed at the sight of me hanging on to my front teeth for dear life.
We went to the hospital. They said the front teeth could not be saved and the dentist pulled them out. He then told me that he could not get any bridges or dentures done for me as it was the holiday season. So he said, just rest and come back after Christmas. I simply asked: "Yes but I can still sing right?" I explained the whole carolling thing and he agreed to let me sing but first he had to stitch my gums up.
I mustered up more bounce and went directly to the children's home ready to carol. We got to position, sweet cute kids sitting on mats in front of us. I made it! I'm carolling! Nothing can stop me!
"Hark the Herald Angels sing "
Next thing I remember, children laughing "Waaah! Boh gay!" (Hokkien for "toothless") Okay, this story is much sadder only if you understand Hokkien.
Still, we carolled on and never have I sung All I Want for Christmas Is My Two Front Teeth with more conviction.
The royal highness of drag comedy
I've always had a strong work ethic. People tell me I take on too many jobs, but I really enjoy what I do. It makes me happy that I'm able to make people laugh. So sometimes, I take on two or three shows a day.
Once, I did a show in the afternoon in a shopping mall, then one in the evening at the Esplanade, and then I had to rush off to emcee a wedding I promised to do a year earlier.
I was oh so late, so I burst into the ballroom in the middle of the wedding banquet. But then I realised it was the wrong wedding! So I just pretended to smile and wave and say hello to everyone - and I mean everyone - before leaving. It turned out the wedding I was supposed to emcee was in the next hotel.
It was the saddest moment of my life, because for that moment, people thought I was reduced to introducing the first course of wedding banquets.
Happy Ever Laughter plays at Esplanade Theatre from June 27 to July 8 at 8pm (Tuesdays to Thursdays), 8 and 11pm (Fridays), 4 and 8pm (Saturdays), 4pm (Sundays). Tickets from $17 to $97 for the preview (June 27), and from $37 to $117 for remaining shows available from Sistic. Due to some racy content, audiences must be 18 and above
