She may not have made much of an appearance for her fans at the airport or the hotel, but Lady Gaga still has undeterred "little monsters" who will be putting together their best outfits for her concerts here.
The incentive: A chance to be spotted in the queue by her staff - collectively known as Haus of Gaga - and taken backstage to meet Mother Monster herself after the show.
One fan excited to dress up is Mr Desmond Charles, 34, a freelance performer.
He has the top-tier $288 tickets for her concert tomorrow, the first of a three-night run for her Born This Way Ball tour here that ends on Thursday.
Mr Charles says that he initially had no plans to put a costume together.
"My partner was dead set against it, because it usually takes me half a day to dress up," he says.
So Mr Charles is keeping it relatively "simple" for the Gaga concert - or at least, his definition of simple.
Taking cues from Gaga's Born This Way video, where at one point she comes out with skeletal make-up, Mr Charles bought a $20 skeleton mask - originally meant for paintball players - from Queensway Shopping Centre.
The rest of his outfit was put together from bits and pieces he has around the house.
His top hat is from Australia, the zoot suit jacket (a long coat with wide lapels and wide padded shoulders) is from Kuantan, Malaysia. It's decorated with badges and sequinned bits from Thailand he sewed on himself.
The extra zing is a blonde wig he got from Thailand, which he attached to the right shoulder of the jacket, with black cable ties from Mustafa Centre poking out, little crystals glued on at the end.
"I wanted to make it look like there was someone's head on my shoulder," he says with a laugh. "I definitely want my outfit to look weird."
Under the suit, he'll be wearing a red shirt and pants combination.
His main reason for dressing up? To impress someone who puts so much effort into her look and her stage performances.
"Lady Gaga is not the kind of person who would short-change anyone," he said.
"I am very impressed by her creativity and how gung-ho she is."
It's Gaga's mantra of being true to yourself that also inspired Mr Charles.
"As a performer, I'm very particular about my own image and being myself," he said.
Another "little monster" who will be dressed to impress tomorrow night, is Md Khairul Ikhwan, 19, a fine arts student atthe Nanyang Academy of FineArts.
He has not just one but three outfits for her concert - "one for Gaga's entrance, one for during the show, and one for after the show".
He's keeping mum on what the outfits will be, but hinted that there will be a tribute to Gaga's famous meat dress from the MTV Video Music Awards in 2010.
But he admits: "It will be simulated meat."
