Mehdi Hassan, for decades known as the king of ghazals in the subcontinent, passed away in Karachi, Pakistan, yesterday after protracted illness. He was 84 and had been seriously ailing for the past many years, especially since the mid-1980s.
Born on July 18, 1927 in village Luna in India's Rajasthan state, Mehdi Hassan came of a family of musicians. He stayed in India until the partition of the subcontinent in August 1947, when he migrated to the new state of Pakistan. The early years in Pakistan were anything but cheerful for the singer. To make ends meet, Mehdi Hassan initially worked in a bicycle shop. Subsequently, he went on to find employment as a car and diesel repair mechanic. His singing abilities, quite naturally, went unrecognised.
The break, however, came in 1957, when he recorded a song for Radio Pakistan. Thereafter there was no looking back for him. By the early 1960s, he was showing great promise as a rising ghazal singer. It was in his voice that the left-wing poet Faiz Ahmed Faiz's well-known poem "gulo mein rang bhare baad-e-nau bahar chale" not only catapulted the poem into fame but also firmly established Mehdi Hassan as a leading artiste in Pakistan.
In his musical career, Mehdi Hassan lent his voice to different genres of music. On the one hand, there were the pure ghazals and on the other there were the romantic songs he sang as a playback singer for a wide range of movies, particularly in the 1960s and well into the late 1970s. Additionally, he was at ease while singing Punjabi songs. His Bangla number, "harano diner kotha mone porhe jaaye", is yet remembered by his fans for the suavity he brought into singing it.
Mehdi Hassan's repertoire of songs included such memorable numbers as "ae duniya kya tujh se kahen", "pyar bhare do sharmile nain", "duniya kisi ke pyar mein", "yun zindagi ki rahon mein", "rafta rafta wo meri hasti ka samaan ho gaye" and "hamari sanson mein aaj tak wo". His performances went beyond Pakistan and captivated audiences in Bangladesh and India. His live performance on Bangladesh Television in 1985 in connection with the first Saarc summit are still remembered by his admirers as well as ghazal enthusiasts in this country.
In his eventful career, Mehdi Hassan was thrice recipient of some of Pakistan's highest awards. He was conferred Tamgha-e-Imtiaz by President Ayub Khan, Pride of Performance Award by President Ziaul Haq and Hilal-e-Imtiaz by President Pervez Musharraf.
