BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN - A Bruneian has made his mark at the 65th Cannes Film Festival with a short film he wrote, directed and produced called "Bread Dream".
Abdul Khabir Zainidi said he had no idea that the film would be accepted. "This ("Bread Dream") is my first short film and I had no idea that it would get accepted into the Cannes Film Festival this year. Nonetheless, when I got the reply I was happy," said Abdul Khabir in an email interview with The Brunei Times.
"Bread Dream" is the first-ever Bruneian movie to be shown in the prestigious festival and it is also the first short film made by the 29-year-old, who has been nurturing his passion for acting in Paris for the past seven years.
Abdul Khabir describes "Bread Dream" as the Bruneian version of Alice in Wonderland.
"The short film is based on a story I wrote while I was in Brunei in December last year. In "Bread Dream" I present the life of a 'dreamer' from artistic and surrealistic lens," said Abdul Khabir.
He elaborated that the "dreamer" in his short film is based on a Malay proverb; angan-angan Mat Jenin. This Malay proverb uses a man called Mat Jenin as an example of a hopeless dreamer. Mat Jenin is a man with big dreams but refuses to exert any effort to materialise them.
"It is a story about a boy who dreamt so hard that it became his downfall. The film is about dreaming too hard but with no effort," said Abdul Khabir.
"Bread Dream" was made using the Malay language because he wanted to incorporate the local culture for an international audience.
To be accepted and to be able to present "Bread Dream" at this year's Cannes Film Festival was one proud moment for Abdul Khabir but the momentum after the festival was also important to keep the film and most importantly his name on surface.
"I spoke about "Bread Dream" on French TV to promote it because once your short film is selected for Cannes, it is your responsibility to ensure it either gets viewed and distributed," said Abdul Khabir, who speaks French fluently.
"Bread Dream" has been selected for another film festival in Marseille, France in November and another in film festival in America while Abdul Khabir is awaiting more confirmations from elsewhere.
He injected local flavour in all aspects of "Bread Dream" , working with young and aspiring local director Adam Groves to edit the movie as well as with local singer Feez Madea to sing the soundtrack. The actors are all Bruneians, he said.
"For me, my time promoting "Bread Dream" in Cannes was about exposure of my short film and our country while showcasing our local artist far beyond our local shores," said Abdul.
The presence of young Bruneians in the international arena is an increasing trend, indicating the drive and ambitions of Brunei's next generation.
Abdul, whose father is a diplomat, has been exposed to a multi-cultural environment since he was young. But his love for performance was accidental.
After abandoning his studies in English Literature and Drama in the United Kingdom, Abdul headed to Paris where his parents were based to study the French language. He found studying French at the Alliance Francaise in Paris to be a struggle and found avenues to improve.
While learning the French language, Abdul also underwent an apprenticeship programme with a hotel in Paris to improve his spoken French. It was at this hotel where his passion for the performing arts industry came into realisation.
"It was only until I noticed all the famous stars and people walking in and out of this hotel did I realise I had a French dream to become an actor. It is very cliche but this is really one reason why I tried out acting and enrolled in a French drama school called Cours Florent," said Abdul.
Abdul is fortunate enough to be able to have the best place to master the skills and knowledge of acting. Founded in 1965, Cours Florent is one of France's most prestigious drama schools with major actors featured in classes taught at the school.
"At Cours Florent, the acting classes were taught in French by French teachers, naturally my level of French improved," said Abdul.
Abdul is currently in Paris where he is working on a short film in French with French actors where he might pull in local singer Feez Madea to act in his French film, too. Feez Madea is also currently in Paris studying French.
Abdul thinks that Brunei has a lot of hidden talents. With the showing of "Bread Dream" at Cannes, he feels that it is a start to making more contribution towards establishing Brunei's name in an international arena.
"Having 'Bread Dream' a part of this year's Cannes Film Festival is my way of contributing to the local film industry by mixing what I have learnt abroad and using local talent and bringing Brunei to the rest of the world," said Abdul Khabir.
"Bread Dream" is not Abdul Khabir's first and last film as the talented filmmaker has plans to make more movies.
"When I come back to Brunei this year, I plan to shoot and direct another short film about Brunei in which I intend to again submit it for the next Cannes Film Festival. I will once again engage and seek out local talents. I hope to work with Adam Groves again," said Abdul Khabir.
In the future, Abdul Khabir hopes to set up a studio for actors in Brunei which he would call "Red Teapot" to help develop local actors. "Red Teapot" will stage plays, organise acting workshops and forums targeting both children and adults.
"I feel that the knowledge I have gained in France can benefit our local aspiring youths and even adults alike. One day, I want to have a role to push Bruneians to be with the rest of the world," said Abdul Khabir.
