She found herself in the midst of protests and demonstrations while in Greece last June.
But actress and voice-over artist Julie Wee, 27, was more concerned about how they disrupted her transport plans rather than for her safety.
Wee and with her 27-year-old boyfriend Fabian, were on a holiday in Greece and Turkey.
She told The New Paper: "The protests were kind of exciting for a Singaporean like myself to experience.
"The riot police were there mostly to keep order, but they eventually used tear gas to disperse the crowd.
"The protesters weren't violent at all. They were just milling around (Syntagma Square in Athens) holding banners and flags.
"They were only trying to voice their general discontent at the Greek government (which had planned to cut public spending and raise taxes)."
She added: "Fabian and I were supposed to take a ferry from England, where I'd been visiting my extended family.
"The ferry company informed us that our trip had been cancelled at the last minute due to the protests. So we had to secure another ferry ride in a really short time."
Wee, whose dad is Chinese-Filipino and mum British, can be seen on stage playing the role of Juliet in Wild Rice's production Romeo and Juliet.
The play opened last Thursday and will run till next Saturday at the Drama Centre Theatre.
While in Greece, Wee and her boyfriend firmly avoided the world-famous Acropolis in Athens.
Instead, they headed for the islands of Paros and Santorini because they are quieter and "off the beaten track".
She explained: "I may be just another tourist, but that doesn't mean I like to go where most other tourists like to go, like the Acropolis.
"I'd heard a lot of good things about Paros from my extended family. In fact, my uncle ran a Chinese restaurant for eight years on the island.
"Paros is a very untouched, pristine island. Fabian and I rented a scooter to explore it.
"I loved the very consistent and iconic blue and white theme of the buildings on Paros."
In contrast, Wee described Santorini as having a hodgepodge of different architectural styles. "There are staircases everywhere and the island has a very unstructured layout.
"Unlike Paros, there are hardly any beaches on Santorini. The waters surrounding Santorini are very quiet and serene, which made the lack of beaches a bigger pity as we couldn't really go swimming.
"Our hotel was carved out of the side of the hill. The hotel room itself resembled a cave, albeit one that was very cosy and cool."
Even though Wee didn't exactly fancy Santorini's architecture, she certainly found herself struck dumb by the Hagia Sophia (right) and the Blue Mosque in Istanbul, Turkey.
The architecture enthusiast gushed: "I love old-fashioned buildings like the Hagia Sophia, which is an incredible art form and has fantastic attention to detail.
"Honestly, you don't find workmanship like that any more in modern buildings.
"The emphasis on glass and steel in modern buildings is also kind of harsh on the eyes."
She added: "Istanbul is reputed to be the crossroads of the world, but I wasn't totally comfortable there.
"Maybe it was because I didn't venture out of the city, or the fact that Fabian and I got lost on our first day there.
Her more favourable holiday impressions were in Greece.
"Athens has a very family-oriented atmosphere, with people just hanging out in its many parks.
"Paros and Santorini were something else altogether. I will always remember them fondly."
Built in the AD 500s, Istanbul's Hagia Sophia, which in Greek means the Church of the Holy Wisdom, was originally a basilica before it became a mosque, and is now a secularised museum.
Santorini is still volcanically active. Its last volcanic activity was recorded in 1950. It is also the only caldera (cauldron-shaped volcanic crater) in the world that is inhabited.
