Handsome. Hot. Hunky.
There's no doubt that these words describe MediaCorp actor Elvin Ng, but "a mummy's boy"? Definitely, says the man himself.
Ng, 31, declares: "I'm a mummy's boy and I'm proud of it.
"She takes care of all my needs, from settling the bills to running errands. I just leave everything to her."
His mother, Madam Linda Chew, 55, dotes on him so much, she even cuts his fruits for him.
Ng, who lives with his mum and siblings in a five-room HDB flat in Jurong East, says: "If I want a drink, I know mum will get it for me. I'm very happy to be dependent on mummy."
Ng reckons that most men are generally too proud to admit their dependence on their mothers.
"(Most) people always have something very derogatory to say about being a mummy's boy. There's always some negative connotation associated with the term," he says.
"Mum is the one who gave birth to you. To be able to connect with her is just so wonderful."
Ng, describes his mum, who is "not working, staying home and enjoying life", as more like a friend. He says he can talk to her about "anything and everything".
He says: "I want to share with mum about what's happening in my life, both the good and the bad."
Ng cherishes the relationship even more now that his dad is gone - the 57-year-old died in February from a ruptured aortic aneurysm.
And this has made Ng step up to the plate.
Ng, who has two younger siblings, says: "I'm the eldest son and at this age, I'm glad that I can take over the responsibility of taking care of the family."
Will there be tension with a prospective girlfriend given the bond he shares with his mum?
Ng says he is confident that "whichever girl I bring home, she'll be someone that mum will like".
He says: "When I look for a girlfriend, she has to be of wife material. So I'd be remembering the qualities of my mum and I'd have to find someone like that."
Madam Chew says she will accept her son's choice when it comes to a life partner.
She says: "I always abide by the children's decisions.
"She just has to be someone who can take care of him."
He recently took her on an eight-day trip to Italy. They returned on Wednesday.
Ng, who paid $11,000 just for the flight and accommodation, says he "just felt like I wanted to do it for mum" even though it was "super expensive".
He admits that he had wondered if he was being too extravagant at first.
"But I felt later that it was worth it for mum. I wanted to devote all my time and attention to her, and so I decided to follow my heart and do it," he says.
Right after the second Star Awards Show, Ng and his mum rushed to the airport where he showered and changed before catching their flight to Venice, Florence and Milan.
Ng says he was initially a little anxious since it was the first time they were travelling together without the family.
He says: "I'm not going to paint it all beautiful - mum's always like, you know generally, like the aunties. And they tend to get paranoid too.
"I don't know if I should say this, in case she gets angry, but she packed pineapple tarts so that she could eat any time.
"She also packed instant noodles. Then when we had dinner, she'd tell me not to order so much because 'I want to go back and finish all the instant noodles'."
At Tuscany, he shared his vision for the future with his mum.
"I told her I wanted to stay in a place like that, in a farmhouse and go back to basics," he says.
"I asked mum if she'd come and live with me and she said yes.
"She was pleased that I offered and I was pleased that she said she would."
