So go the lyrics of Let's Roll, the first single off local rapper Shigga Shay's recently-released debut EP They Call Me Shigga.
Shigga Shay, whose real name is Pek Jin Shen, wrote the song and some of the other tracks on the EP at a time when he was still struggling to find traction within the local music community.
"Of course, there were people saying things about me," Pek told The New Paper. "But I never once thought I should give up."
Some naysayers took potshots at his American accent.
Others told him to stop aping American rappers like Eminem, who was an early influence.
But that was two years ago.
Let's Roll recently made it into the Top 20 chart on 987FM, and a quick scroll through comments on Pek's videos on YouTube shows support for the rapper.
One comment reads: "Of course he ain't Eminem, but he's Shigga Shay and that's fine enough."
Pek will perform alongside local and international musicians at the upcoming Music Matters Live, a three-night festival at Clarke Quay tied to Music Matters, a gathering of music industry professionals.
The 20-year-old, who recently graduated from Singapore Polytechnic, previously performed at the National Day Parade in 2010.
When he settled down to put together They Call Me Shigga, Pek reached out to friends he'd already made in the local music community, and made some new ones.
He worked closely with local music producer and singer-songwriter Don Richmond, whom he has known for several years. Richmond was his mentor in Noise Singapore's apprenticeship programme in 2010.
"He tries to pull me away from traditional hip-hop," said Pek. "It definitely helps to expand my sound."
For example, Rock My World, which features vocalist Vanessa Fernandez, has elements of R&amp;B and jazz.
Pek also reached out to beatmakers elsewhere, like the duo Noctune and Outcome from Malaysia and JDoug from the UK.
"We've never actually met face to face, but we would e-mail each other ideas," he said. "It's a pretty cool way of working."
The EP, now only available digitally at shiggashay.com, will be released in stores next month.
Pek is hard at work putting together videos for some of the EP's songs - the do-it-yourself musician also edits the videos.
He has become so good at it that he sometimes gets requests from other musicians to help with their videos.
That and playing regular gigs keeps him in the black and keeps his music dreams going.
And so does the unwavering support of his mother, a 50-year-old housewife.
Pek's father died two years ago, and part of the song Echoes on the EP was written in tribute to him.
Said Pek: "She's never once told me that I should stop.
"Even when there were people saying bad things, she'd just tell me, 'Don't listen to them.'"
WHEN &amp; WHERE: May 25
8.10pm at Forbidden City
9.40pm at The Arena
May 24, 7.50pm at China One
May 25, 9pm at Forbidden City
May 26, 10pm at Shuffle
All shows are free.
