Singer Park Jin-young expanded his entertainment business by launching his new diamond-shaped headphones in Seoul on Friday. The product, named Monster Diamond Tears Headphones, was personally designed by Park and launched by US company Monster.
The music mogul, who serves as the head of JYP Entertainment, said he wanted to create a high-performance and stylish headset that goes well with any outfit.
"Normally headphones are designed in the hip hop style, but these are different," he said in an interview. "The Diamond Tears go well with pretty much anything."
The launch party was graced by JYP artists such as the Wonder Girls, miss A, 2PM and 2AM, who strategically posed for photographs holding or wearing the diamond-style headset.
The list of attendees also included Noel Lee, the founder of Monster which created the headphone line Beats by Dr. Dre in partnership with Dr. Dre. Famous musicians such as 50 Cent have also launched their own headphone lines in the past, and Park seems to be following the trend.
The 40-year-old singer has come a long way since he first made his debut in the group Park Jin-young and the New Generation twenty years ago.
Once he gained success in his career as a solo artist with hit songs such as "She was Pretty" and "Honey," he moved on to give rise to symbolic artists such as Rain and the Wonder Girls, composing and producing over 31 charting singles and 25 albums.
Park made his acting debut in 2011, appearing in "Dream High," and stars in the upcoming movie "Five Million Dollar Man."
Park also opened a Korean restaurant, Kristalbelli, in Manhattan in March.
The Korean celebrity performed live at Friday's launch party, singing 'You're the One,' a number he first performed on the SBS talent show K-pop Star.
The Diamond Tears headset gained much public interest thanks to the show ahead of its launch, as Park often appeared on the judge panel wearing them.
In one episode, he forgot to take them off after viewing a performance, and had to be reminded.
The launching party came after the Diamond Tears headphones were first introduced at the CES 2012 in Las Vegas.
Park and Monster CEO Noel Lee also attended the opening event of the first Diamond Tears shop at the Galleria Department Store in Apgujeong on Sunday.
The headsets were available at the department store as of Friday.
