This is the kind of movie where, though a person could have easily taken his opponent down with a bullet through the skull, he chooses the fair-and-square way of slugging it out with him bare-knuckled instead.
Such fighting is the real rush, explains a brutal thug named Mad Dog (Yayan Ruhian) in the Indonesian flick, The Raid: Redemption.
This is after he compares the act of simply pulling the trigger to "fast food" - who would want that?
The sceptical part of me doesn't quite believe in this sense of honour in a life-and- death situation where evil is pitted against the righteous.
But like the rest of the audience, I applauded this plot development, because that was an excuse to witness yet another fine display of the Indonesian martial art called pencak silat.
Written and directed by Indonesia-based Welsh film-maker Gareth Evans - whose resume includes another silat action film, Merantau (2009) - The Raid won the People's Choice Award at last year's Toronto International Film Festival and chalked up US$4 million ($5 million) in box-office takings in the United States.
The story unfolds in a derelict apartment block - the type that would be readily put up for en bloc sale in Singapore. But, located within a Jakarta slum, this is the safe haven for dangerous criminals and other dubious types trying to stay under the radar.
On this fateful day, the building is infiltrated by a Swat squad led by Sergeant Jaka (Joe Taslim). But the real star is rookie cop Rama (Iko Uwais), whose pregnant wife is at home awaiting his return.
When the police presence is detected by Tama (Ray Sahetapy), the crime lord who reigns over the building, he orders a lockdown and announces to his residents via the PA system that he will reward every cop killer with perpetual free rent.
The determined way in which Rama tries to fight his way out with as many of his comrades as possible reminds me of the intense fight between good and evil in the Die Hard movie franchise starring Bruce Willis.
Still, The Raid would have benefited if there had been a better battle of wits and, for that matter, a beefier plot.
As the film stands, the suspense stems not from the intricacy of the story - which one has to admit is rather thin - but mainly from the tightly coiled action sequences. Often, the viewer is left on a razor's edge as to whether the good or bad guy will bite the dust.
This is aided by Iko and Yayan's seamless fight choreography, as well as innovative camera angles and the stylised way that the action is captured on film.
So elegance is intermingled with gore, as bullets whirl past in slow motion or human heads explode in crimson sprays.
As weapons, ranging from parangs to pistols and rifles, as well as flying kicks and bare hands take turns to cause carnage on the big screen, the film exhibits beauty and grace amid the sweat, blood and crunch of bones.
Sure, more could have been done to heighten the emotions felt between characters and to better explain the motivations behind plot twists and surprise revelations.
But this is one big adrenalin rush that's so intoxicating that the flaws are easy to forgive and forget.
