World domination through the Internet.
That's what local band Moochie Mac and Superfriends (MMS) aims to do, albeit in jest, after being crowned the Singapore winners of Hard Rock Rising 2012 at Hard Rock Cafe Singapore on Thursday night.
MMS - which consists of frontman and lead singer Hayatt Shah, 29, bassist Mohandas, 38, guitarist Roman Tarassov, 29, and drummer Effendy Othman, 32 - won US$500 (S$630) in cash and $1,000 in Hard Rock Cafe vouchers.
More importantly, the band now has a chance to play at Hyde Park in London at the annual Hard Rock Calling concert, which will be held from July 13 to July 15 and will feature superstar acts like US singer-songwriter Bruce Springsteen.
Shah exclaimed excitedly to The New Paper after their win: "It was an out-of-body experience winning Hard Rock Rising!
"Our performance tonight was really a mash-up of rock and love.
"We can now win the world over but we need the support of our fellow Singaporeans. "A little bit of effort goes a long way - just 'like' our band on Facebook and vote for us in Hard Rock Rising!"
Last week's face-off, which also involved finalists like Glitched Roots Project and Green Monster, was part of a global band competition involving participating Hard Rock Cafes around the world.
MMS will now go up against 85 other winners from across the world. Fans can vote for MMS on Hard Rock Cafe Singapore's Facebook page from April 9 onwards.
At the finals, Shah arrived fashionably late for MMS' first number, a cover of Sex Machine by legendary funk singer James Brown.
Their performance also included their original compositions Hold Ma Hand and Fish, Eggs &amp; Sushi.
Shah, whose day job is selling insurance, revealed that the band's current line-up had been playing together for roughly two months.
Improvised
"Our main objective is to have fun. A lot of my moves on stage are improvised. "We're not the kind of band that insists on practising like mad before a performance. In fact, for Hard Rock Rising, we practised just once together."
Hard Rock Rising Judge and music and entertainment consultant Mishal Varma described Shah's slick dancing as "really energetic".
He added: "MMS are really a well-coordinated band with lots of chemistry. "I have to give props to (first runner-up) Green Monster though, as they were technically excellent.
"Moochie's sound was just a little tighter, and in my opinion that's why they won." Shah feels that the abundance of talent in the local music scene will hopefully translate into more substantial support for local bands over time.
"People should be more in tune with local bands, which are simply crying out for more coverage, especially from the media.
"We rocked the house at Hard Rock Cafe tonight, and with your votes we'll get to fulfil a dream - playing in London!"
ggerald@sph.com.sg
