The Cabin in the Woods (M18) Horror/94 minutes
I can't give away too much of the really kicking plot of The Cabin In The Woods, or you guys would probably come after me like Freddy Krueger with his killer claws.
Let me just say it looks like The Hunger Games for horror fans, as a bunch of unsuspecting college students get nailed in a reality-TV show set-up while a group of uncaring, cruel programmers gawk at them via video screens and manipulate their fears.
"Engage pheromone mist," the dominant button-pusher (The West Wing's Bradley Whitford) dictates. What that does is to push the hunk (Thor's Chris Hemsworth) and the babe (Anna Hutchison) closer together in sexy panic heat.
Whitford and Six Feet Under's Richard Jenkins steal the show as two funny, wacky puppet masters who treat the gory occasion as one big party by high-fiving gleefully, popping champagne and placing bets.
It's kind of like The Truman Show, but with a heckuva lot more mangled bodies.
Now, if you've seen enough horror movies, you'd know that when five doomed suckers go to an isolated cabin in the middle of nowhere, chances are they'd most likely be wiped out by a giant monster, the psycho from Friday The 13th or a bunch of unstoppable zombies.
Pick your poison.
Here, it's a zombie attack ala Night Of The Living Dead.
You'd always ask, on occasions like this, why these idiots never ever saw that particular seminal zombie movie, but there you have it.
Also, you know how in horror flicks when Japanese schoolgirls freak out in a classroom, their tormentor would usually be a vengeful female ghost covered by long black hair?
The Cabin In The Woods, the horror flick to end all horror flicks, features that too, though only fleetingly in one of the movie's funniest scenes).
Cabin is not some silly spook spoof, ala Scary Movie, where you laugh at parodies.
Know this: In Cabin, there are very graphic scenes of people being decimated that would give those folk from Saw divine inspiration.
But you will laugh at how there are people - especially co-writers Joss Whedon and Drew Goddard - who are such fanboys of the genre they must have drooled buckets discussing the high concept here.
Whedon, director of upcoming superhero biggie The Avengers, and Goddard wrote those groovy cult TV classics of a decade ago: Buffy The Vampire Slayer and Angel.
Some of the alumni from those series pop up in minor roles here and, if you're really in the know, Cabin actually qualifies as one big extended episode of those TV shows combined.
Goddard (making his directing debut here) also scripted 2008's rampaging-monster flick, Cloverfield.
Which means these two dudes really know their horror.
They also happen to know their ancient Mayan, Inca, whatever ritual sacrifices, or at least their pop-cultural aspect, which makes throwing hot virgins into volcanoes basically a cool thing.
Back to the story.
Hemworth's hunk and Hutchison's babe are joined by the virgin (Kristen Connolly), the smartie (Jesse Williams) and the stoner (Fran Kranz from Whedon's short-lived series, Dollhouse).
They are the symbolic ingredients of cabin-fever terror in the horror genre which, in this Rubik's Cube of a deal, keep you guessing just what the heck is happening.
Then, when you see the universe of abject fear as dreamt up by Whedon, you'll know how twisted everything is. It's sick.
But it's damn sick, scary fun.
