His name is synonymous with crass toilet humour comedies.
But Rob Schneider is about to change all that.
The 48-year-old Hollywood actor now wants to show that he's a devoted family man - and it's all because of his wife.
The star of the Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo movies is now the face of Rob, his new eponymous TV sitcom about a white American man who has to contend with the many cultural differences, various family dynamics and disapproving in-laws after marrying a Mexican-American.
"To be honest, the show is my wife's idea," Schneider told The New Paper over the phone from LosAngeles.
Rob premieres on April 8 on beTV (StarHub Ch 525) at 8.10pm.
It's loosely based on Schneider's real-life romance and marriage to Mexican television producer Patricia Azarcoya Schneider, whom he married in April lastyear.
"I was also getting tired of being away from home months at a time making movie," he offered.
The titular character Schneider plays on the show has a whirlwind romance with Maggie (Claudia Bassols), a young, beautiful and smart Hispanic woman.
They elope to Las Vegas and tie the knot and then have to face the reality of breaking the news to Maggie's over-protective and judgmental parents.
While Schneider didn't face such objections in real life, how he won the hand of his wife does sound like a movie script.
"I met her in Mexico City on a TV show called War Of The Jokes," he recalled fondly.
"She's very nice, very lovely, has a nice laugh, a beautiful smile, and she's a really smart girl.
"I invited her for dinner, but she refused. After about two and a half weeks of begging every day, she finally agreed and flew in with her mother to Los Angeles," said Schneider with a chuckle. "So it was a nice date with me and her and her mum!
"We went out for about two years and we married last year."
Strong woman
Schneider praised his wife as being a "very strong woman", much like his own mother, whom he calls his "pillar of strength".
"That's why I do whatever they tell me," he said with a laugh.
Schneider is born to a Filipino-American mother, and credits his success to his "Asian upbringing". "As you get older, you realise the most important thing in your life is your family, not how you've made it in Hollywood."
He shared how he had always striven to impress his mother since he was a child.
"My mother never praised or gave me a pat on the back when I come back home from school with good grades," he recounted.
"She would say, 'What do you expect? You're smart. You're supposed to get As,'" he said with a laugh.
"I remembered telling myself that I'd to do something really special to get her attention. So that was a good push for me."
It is this strong family concept that Schneider hopes to bring across in Rob, despite it being set against a Hispanic society.
"Rob is all about family. I think, respectfully, there are similarities between Hispanic and Asian families.
"There's always somebody in the family who feels he's not getting enough attention, or somebody who gets too much. There's always someone asking for money, and someone looking for place to stay."
While the comedy in Rob is derived from many stereotypical "fish out of water" situations, Schneider isn't worried about offending anyone.
"There is a vast array of people in America. I think we can play with some of the stereotypes.
"You have to try and do what's funny and not be afraid to offend though I don't think you should start at a place about what's outrageous."
He added: "Comedy comes out from a desperation situation. There's an old saying that says comedy is tragedy not happening to you. I think that's quite interesting.
"I'd like to see more conflict and desperation, to reflect the true situations in America."
joannes@sph.com.sg
