TEL AVIV - US pop icon Madonna will on Thursday launch her hotly-anticipated MDNA world tour with a show in Tel Aviv, kicking off a roadtrip of more than 80 countries in what will be her longest-ever stint on the road.
When she hits the stage at Ramat Gan stadium on Thursday night with what promises to be an eye-popping extravaganza, the 53-year-old Queen of Pop will be embarking on her ninth world tour, this time in support of her new album MDNA.
Announced in February, the tour - Madonna's first first since her wildly successful "Sticky and Sweet" outing in 2008 and 2009 - will move from Israel to Abu Dhabi and on to Europe and the Americas.
It is expected to draw to a close in early 2013 in Australia where the singer has not performed in more than 20 years.
Kicking off her latest tour in Israel was a natural choice for the Catholic-born singer who over the last decade has become deeply involved in the Jewish mystical tradition of Kabbalah, which has brought her to the Jewish state on a number of public and private visits.
She last performed in Israel in 2009 during her "Sticky and Sweet" tour, when she met Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and visited the Western Wall in the Old City of Jerusalem, the holiest site where Jews are allowed to pray.
Thursday evening's show at the Ramat Gan stadium, which has a capacity of 35,000, was completely sold out but a day ahead of the performance, the singer briefly met with members of the Palestinian-Israeli Peace NGO Forum and handed them 600 tickets.
"We spoke to her for a few minutes and we asked if she would say anything about peace," Peace Now's Yariv Oppenheimer told AFP, saying it was the forum's first-ever contact with the petit singer, who has largely steered clear of getting involved with political issues linked to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
"She told us: I will say much more than a word about it."
She arrived on Friday on a chartered El Al flight from New York, accompanied by partner Brahim Zaibat, her four children and an entourage of 70, who took over the seafront Dan Hotel in Tel Aviv.
More than 4,000 fans have flown into Israel to attend the concert, with each paying between $62 (50 euros) per ticket, up to $620 for a VIP package including a seat in the specially-constructed Diamond area which is part of the stage.
Produced by Israel's Shuki Weiss with Live Nation, the Tel Aviv show is reportedly said to have cost an estimated $3.9 million (S$5.02 million).
Ahead of her arrival, the Material Girl asked for the stadium to include sleeping accommodation for her and her family, a games area for her kids and a lounge in which she will be interviewed by US TV host Conan O'Brian, who has flown in specially, Israel's Haaretz newspaper reported.
The Tel Aviv show is reportedly said to have cost an estimated $3.9 million.
As for the outfits, Madge has reportedly enlisted an ever-impressive list of designers to suit and boot both her, her band and her dancers for the MDNA tour, including Jean Paul Gaultier, Jeremy Scott, Alexander Wang, Dolce &amp; Gabbana, Fausto Puglisi and J Brand.
She will also be wearing Prada and Miu Miu shoes as well as footwear and lingerie from her Truth or Dare line, with her signature conical bra also set to make an appearance.
