Nicolas Cuche, director of the quirkily engaging romantic comedy, Second Chance, believes in the element of luck.
That's not surprising, considering that luck - primarily the bad kind - plays a pivotal role in the movie, which was the No. 1 romantic comedy in France last year.
A relationship counsellor, Julien Monnier (Francois-Xavier Demaison), is a sad-sack jinx to his former girlfriends, all of whom dumped him after suffering haplessly amusing accidents.
Julien meets Joanna Sorini (Virginie Efira), a beautiful designer of exotic cars, who is subjected to the same curse - a clumsy fire, a near loss of a vital internal organ in a mixed-up operation, to name a few accidents - but seems to ride it out better than the others. Will they stay together, or will luck eventually get in the way again?
"Everything is a matter of timing - good or bad timing," said Cuche, 47, during a visit to Singapore recently. "But a person with bad luck, of course, is more interesting to a filmmaker."
The French director spoke of how fortune dictates destiny, even for him.
The part of Julien, the male flop dog, was initially written as a handsome man in the script (Demaison looks ordinary).
"A lot of female reporters in France asked me why this pretty girl, Joanna, would choose this not-so-good-looking man, Julien, who is also terribly unlucky," Cuche said. "They couldn't believe it, but I guess that's the magic of cinema.
"In France, we have an artistic tradition where we recall comedies we've seen in childhood. I've always preferred movies to reality when I was a child."
Then, that classic French predilection for joy mixed in with a bit of self-induced pessimism kicked in. Comedy is strongest when depression is also in full bloom. "Everyone wants to laugh when there's a crisis (Europe's economic crisis) going on," Cuche said.
That iffy state of affairs means that uncertainty is always a good thing for a comedy director.
Asked whether a woman would prefer a man with good looks or good luck, he said: "Good luck, that's for sure."
