They came, they saw and they were wowed.
Judges for The New Paper's FiRST Film Fest (FFF) 2012 were so impressed by some of the entries that they were already considering the possibility of adapting them into commercially-viable works.
For example, quirky finalist entry Paper Plane was singled out by judge Jack Neo as having "great comic timing".
He added: "I'm seriously considering the possibility of having you guys (director Dennis Heng and actor Rayve Tay) take part in my next movie."
Neo also focused on short films 64 and Chasing Time as having the potential to be remade into a financially-profitable format.
Chasing Time, which tells the story of a young scientist caught in a time loop, drew thunderous applause from the audience after its screening.
The film was shot on a budget of $400, said its director, 21-year-old Jerrold Chong.
Neo, 52, praised it highly, saying: "It may seem small, but people do notice and remember the little things,."
He cited the appropriately timed pauses in the soundtrack as an example.
Neo also fancied 64, which touched on a chess master's anxieties (played by Louis Law) as he prepares for a competition.
"It's got a really good twist. I particularly like how the lead actor conveyed a lot of meaning to the audience through his eyes."
The films were among the shortlisted finalists selected for a special screening over two days for the short-film competition, which is in its second year.
Eighteen films were selected from 83 entries covering a wide range of genres - from heart-warming tearjerkers to action-packed thriller flicks - and their directors, friends, family, cast and crew members were invited to the event on Tuesday and yesterday evening at WE Cinemas Suntec.
The judging panel comprised veteran film-maker Neo, founder and executive director of mm2 Entertainment Melvin Ang, Sinema Old School co-founder Nicholas Chee and Ms Vivien Ong, senior marketing manager of Eng Wah Global.
They offered their thoughts and insight on each short film after it had been screened.
FFF 2012 offers its winner the chance to work with Neo on a full-length feature movie.
Prizes include $20,000 worth of Sony Handycams, a Media Development Authority grant worth up to $10,000 and Jay Gee Cards valued at $500 each.
Mr Ang, 48, was interested in short film MBS Stopmotion, a collaboration among three friends - Mr Billy Ker, Mr Meng Zhiqun and Mr Jonathan Goh, all 24.
The film depicts a journey involving the three guys walking around Marina Bay Sands using a stop-motion photography technique.
Mr Ang paid tribute to the trio, describing the stop-motion technique as a likely candidate for a fashion commercial. He cited fashion brands Swatch and United Colors of Benetton as examples that could profitably employ such a creative technique.
Though the judges did not offer specific invitations to work with other film-makers, they were impressed by most of the entries.
One entry that also stood out was the animated short film First Drop - The Rain Cloud Machine, directed by 24-year-old student Lee Kok Wei.
It tells a heart-warming tale of how a young boy tries to restart the cloud machine created by his late father.
Mr Lee said the idea for First Drop came up during a brainstorming session, where they decided to go with a steampunk theme for their film.
Neo said: "The character design, lighting and character movement were spot-on."
Mr Chee also agreed that the storytelling for First Drop was moving.
The FFF 2012 winner will be announced at an awards presentation ceremony tonight at WE Cinemas Suntec at 7.30pm.
Guest presenters include actors Pamelyn Chee and Nat Ho, and Minister of State for Defence and Education Lawrence Wong, as well as last year's FFF Best Short Film winner and budding young actor Amos Yee.
Other awards to be presented include Favourite Male Performance, Favourite Female Performance and the Sony Creativity Award.
