No boundaries
For Chinese singer Della Ding, anything is possible when it comes to her electrifying live performances on stage.
The 29-year-old Zhejiang native - known for her soaring, powerhouse vocals and sizzling dance moves - made jaws drop last December when she did a raunchy number with veteran Hong Kong singer Alex To at her debut concert at the Taipei Arena.
Ding and her guest star To, 50, elicited screams from the audience as they shook their booties and gyrated erotically to To's classic hit, Take Off.
The atmosphere reached fever pitch towards the end of the segment as Ding boldly pulled down To's pants, revealing his black boxers.
In an interview with The New Paper last Friday, while in town to promote her sixth studio album, One In A Thousand, the Mandopop personality explained her "daring" act.
"Actually, I don't come up with the content for my concerts on my own," she said in Mandarin.
"Prior to any live show, the management at my record label (B'in Music International) will have a meeting to throw up different ideas and concepts.
"It's just that I'm the type who is pretty receptive to suggestions...I like challenges and I do not deliberately set limits or boundaries for myself."
So, will Ding, who is slated to do gigs in Taiwan and Hong Kong come July and August, continue to up her game and surprise her fans with sexed-up performances?
Will we see her going as far as planting kisses on her fellow celebrities?
While Ding pondered for a moment, her manager, seated beside her, interrupted with a chuckle: "She even dared to pull down Alex's pants, what do you think?"
Grinning, the singer stressed that it "still boils down to the theme" of the concert at hand.
"If I'm in the middle of a slow heartfelt ballad, it won't be right if I start kissing people, right?" she said.
"That said, I'm quite open to ideas... (female Mandopop singers) Elva (Hsiao) and Jolin (Tsai) once smooched onstage.
"I don't rule out doing something like that too, it's good sisterly fun!"
While Ding is all for letting her hair down during her concerts, recording One In A Thousand in the studio proved to be an "emotional rollercoaster".
The entire album was written for her ex-boyfriend, with whom she parted ways three years ago.
"These 11 songs chart our relationship, from beginning to end," she said.
"There is the breezy, light-hearted Love Secretly, which depicts the happy phase we were in when we first started dating.
"Then, there are songs like Not Your Fault and Does He Still Recognise Me, which reflect my emotions after our break-up."
Singing these sad, heartbreaking tunes were "difficult" for her, as they inevitably bring back a ton of memories.
Nevertheless, Ding, who is currently single, has put her past behind her and craves for a new relationship.
"I would love to find The One, but with my hectic, irregular schedule, I don't have much time to date...It's really tough," she said.
"My ideal guy would be someone who is filial, dutiful and responsible.
"If he can cook, that'll certainly be a bonus."
Her desire for a man gifted with culinary deftness isn't exactly to make up for her lack of expertise in the kitchen.
"I like shopping for groceries, foodstuff and ingredients," Ding said with a chuckle.
"So it'll be nice if I can find someone who can complement me and whip up lovely dishes."
