SINGAPORE - For once, after a K-pop gig, almost everyone stayed glued to their seats.
There was excitement in the air as each fan waited for his or her moment at the Singapore Indoor Stadium.
The moment to get up close and personal with their idol.
Korean star Kim Hyun Joong then shook the hands of or high-fived everyone in the 3,000-strong crowd on Friday night.
And he did that right after having performed for two hours, singing hits such as Kiss Kiss and I Am Your Man, and playing games with his fans.
No surprise then, that in the one hour and 15 minutes that it took for him to complete his unenviable feat, he was seen supporting himself with his other hand on the table.
At times, he was seen massaging his chest with his free hand, his face showing signs of weariness.
Nevertheless, he continued to smile and greet every fan.
A fan was overheard remarking, almost out of pity for Kim, that not once did he wipe his hand even when it was a given that he must have touched plenty of "disgusting, clammy palms".
It may have been his first-ever fan meeting and mini concert in Singapore, but how Kim reached out to every single person at the Singapore Indoor Stadium will be remembered for a long time to come.
Women, children, some walking with a limp, others in wheelchairs, made the journey onstage to be enveloped in his warm grasp.
It was touted as a high-five session, but most ended up just shaking Kim's hand.
If Kim had any thoughts about his epic hand-shake session, it must have been that Singaporeans are a wonderfully obedient bunch.
Not one fangirl tried to grab him, kiss him or ask for his autograph.
They went in twos, lining up in orderly rows, as if waiting to board a bus.
The emcee constantly reminded the fans to just shake Kim's hand and exit, and everyone did exactly that.
Said event planner Avalin Chew, 25: "He has meaty hands. He said 'thank you' as I was about to shake his hand, that was so sweet.
"And his body is really hot."
Kim, though, had a particularly soft spot for the elderly and the young - it showed in the way he lavished warmer and wider smiles on them.
Cheers went all round the arena as two old ladies who had difficulty walking were seen being helped into wheelchairs.
They clutched Kim's posters and waved them wildly.
One wondered just how they were going to make it up the steep flight of steps to reach their idol.
But as the wheelchairs reached the bottom of the stage, without hesitation and to everyone's delight, Kim immediately went down to meet the old ladies instead.
A handshake, followed by a nice, big hug made the ladies' gruelling trip worth it.
It wasn't only the handshakes that got the crowd going.
During Kim's performance, the audience of mainly women lapped up a pre-recorded video of the five things that he'll do for his future girlfriend.
Apart from cooking for her, buying romantic gifts for her, singing to her and writing love letters to her, what cracked his admirers up was the last item.
According to the video, Kim would like to act out scenes from movies with his girlfriend.
His parody of the famous "I'm the king of the world!" scene from Titanic was priceless as he stood behind a giant white stuffed bear and held out its arms.
The other highlight of the night was, of course, when Kim appeared in a black jacket, exposing his bare chest.
Said accountant Victoria Tan, 53: "I really enjoyed tonight as his brand of music is very nice. It's not too noisy, and very soothing.
"There's a vulnerability about Kim Hyun Joong and his sweet face that appeals to a lot of women.
"I think a lot of people won't be washing their hands tonight."
