Game Of Thrones, the greatest show in the universe, is back for a second season! My puny words are unworthy of the mighty, mighty Game Of Thrones.
No matter what I say, I will fall far short of conveying its epic magnificence.
As you read on through this article, take what I've written and imagine how Shakespeare or Stephenie Meyer might have said it.
When I utter something dull and uninspired like "Game Of Thrones is awesome", what you should hear in your own mind is "Shall I compare Game Of Thrones to a summer's day?"
Or, if you're more of a Stephenie person, "Robb Stark is so hawt!"
Let us sally forth, then.
The smackable-faced King Joffrey (Jack Gleeson) now sits upon the Iron Throne, which can't be comfortable given his boney butt - someone fetch a cushion!
Having developed a taste for blood after beheading poor, big-nosed Ned Stark last season, Joffrey is now forcing knights to fight to the death for his amusement.
Also he's having the throne room redecorated.
Also he's killing babies.
Tyrion Lannister (Peter Dinklage) has been sent to King's Landing to serve as the King's Hand.
The hope is that he'll be able to rein in the boy as well as the boy's horrible mother Cersei (Lena Headey), but with baby-killing already on the menu, stern talkings-to probably won't cut it.
An out-and-out coup would seem to be in order, and indeed everyone in the continent of Westeros is vying for the opportunity to usurp Joffrey and to smack his annoying face.
Ned's son Robb (Richard Madden) is leading an army against Joffrey and making good progress.
This year, they've used some sort of special effect to make the Starks' wolves look much bigger. As a fan of very large wolves, I'm delighted.
Meanwhile, poor Daenerys Targaryen (Emilia Clarke) is trudging though a vast desert trying to figure out how to take care of her new dragons.
Her kingdom for some dragon kibble!
Season 2 of Game Of Thrones also introduces us to a whole new roster of characters, which is fortunate as characters in this show have a tendency to die "right quick like".
The late King Robert's brother Stannis Baratheon (Stephen Dillane) has hooked up with wild sorceress Melisandre (Carice van Houten), who is urging him into battle.
Those of us who had a crush on Daenerys last year are going to have to do some serious soul searching - Melisandre is also hella crushable.
When we're first introduced to Melisandre, she's forcing Stannis to participate in this silly fire ceremony where he has to wave around a flaming sword and pretend to be a god.
She's a total Yoko. Next she'll have him in his PJs chanting the Maha Mantra.
Overall, Season 2 has a more fantastical vibe than what we saw with the first season, and I'm all for it.
There's a big red comet or something hanging in the sky, and it seems to portend a marked increase in loopiness.
Both Shakespeare and Stephenie Meyer would approve.
