No matter what creed or race, those who reign with iron fists may frighten us with their lunatic inclinations and weapons of mass destruction.
Yet, we can't help being fascinated by them.
In the aftermath of the fall of the late Iraqi ruler Saddam Hussein, and the Arab Spring uprising that has driven former rulers of countries like Egypt and Libya out of power, London- born comedian Sacha Baron Cohen (Borat, Bruno) has found another timely yet timeless topic to exploit.
With this new film, The Dictator - dedicated, by the way, to Kim Jong Il, the late supreme leader of North Korea - Cohen was once again making headlines before the movie itself reached the big screen.
He arrived at this year's Oscars ceremony in character as a fictitious North African leader, Admiral-General Hafez Aladeen, of "the Mighty Nation of Wadiya".
There, the man who made all things Kazakhstan famous seized the chance to poke fun at dictator Kim by claiming to be carrying his ashes in an urn - which he promptly emptied over American Idol and E! Entertainment host Ryan Seacrest.
In The Dictator, life for Aladeen in Wadiya is pretty sweet. There, he is surrounded by sexy female bodyguards and gets greeted by his uncle Tamir (Ben Kingsley), who kisses him on his armpits.
In a film like this, you expect Cohen to play up all kinds of stereotypes attached to a dictator - and he does. Aladeen has a bushy beard, executes anyone who displeases him, is an anti- Semitic womaniser and is currently building nuclear weapons.
But during a trip to New York City to address the United Nations Security Council, he is betrayed by Tamir and kidnapped by a hitman (John C. Reilly). He escapes, but not before getting his beard cut off, which renders him unrecognisable.
Here, a sane film-maker would have taken the chance to make Aladeen more sympathetic, in a fish-out-of-water tale where the flawed man learns to get reconnected to his good side.
But in Baron Cohen's screenplay directed by his Borat collaborator Larry Charles, Aladeen instead tries to make use of his activist friend Zoey (Anna Farris), who offers him work at her alternative lifestyle co-op. His plan? To achieve his return to power.
While a sequence in New York's Little Wadiya, where Wadiyan refugees congregate, is mildly funny, most of the jokes are already out on the film's trailer. Other gags rely on slapstick, crass sexual jokes or those involving human bodily discharges of different kinds.
Is there a political satire hidden here somewhere? Sure, if you look hard enough.
But beyond the timeliness of the topic of dictators and the novelty of cameos from the likes of Megan Fox and Edward Norton, one really wishes that Cohen had tried to give his film an iota of intelligence.
THE DICTATOR (M18) Comedy/83 minutes Rating: 2/5 stars
