Circa 2093, the crew of the exploratory spaceship, Prometheus, wakes up from deep sleep after a journey of over two years, to land on the moon of a distant planet.
Ancient cave markings on Earth suggest that it could be the Ground Zero where the original creators of humankind itself came from.
On the spectacularly vast moonscape, they discover a massive, abandoned structure with worm-like tunnels beneath which are the fossilised remains of mysterious aliens who look like huge WWE wrestlers on steroids, plus unseen creatures lurking in the dark.
"Don't engage them, don't talk to them," goes the order to the landng team in case of ET contact. Yeah, sure, fat chance.
Heading the expedition are an archaeologist couple, Elizabeth Shaw (Noomi Rapace) and Charlie Holloway (Logan Marshall-Green), corporate rep and super-cold fish Meredith Vickers (Charlize Theron), tough ship captain Janek (Idris Elba), and the best thing in the movie - a butler-translator android named David (Michael Fassbender showing his formidable linguistic skills).
Man, this dude's the kind of unflappably polite-but-devious Aryan blond-genteel Englishman robot even Hitler would've killed for. "Cup of tea, ma'am?" he offers, while plotting his own search for primal existence.
Now, the big question about Ridley Scott's awesomely detailed but mostly predictable Prometheus is, of course, whether this is the prequel to Alien, Scott's seminal sci-fi hit in 1979.
Evidently, yes - well, sort of - because despite the Brit director downplaying the connection to presumably avoid being hemmed in from pursuing new frontiers, his Eventful Horizon here does show traces of the old playbook, from Alien and James Cameron's Aliens (1986) to other space-tripping fare like 2000's Mission To Mars.
Three decades ago, if Scott had the money, tech know-how and CGI magic, this is the Alien flick he would've first made.
He picks up from where he left the biggest question hanging 33 years ago: Who was that dead giant alien with the burst ribcage which the crew in the first Alien film encountered before all hell broke loose?
The problem with Prometheus, though, is that it has too many echoes from the past to make a fresh start, and its weak, too-reverent script doesn't offer a mind-blowing revelation to go with the scenery.
Maybe sci-fi life today is too characterised by a posier, more detached way of expression but, back in the old Alien flicks, people were genuinely urgent and terrified in fighting for their lives.
You just keep wondering how these folks in Prometheus, in trying to uncover the elusive source of life, can treat the loss of it - the crew gets cut down like so much useless body fat - so casually.
About the only people who seem to make meaningful gestures here are Rapace, Elba and, fortunately and juicily, Fassbender's motive-bender android. Rapace (the chick from the original Swedish version of The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo) is okay as The Girl Who Tries Very Hard.
But Fassbender, as the disobedient, distrustful artificial man, is in a world of his own.
Styled after a young Peter O'Toole - the android loves watching a video of Lawrence Of Arabia in the spaceship - he is quixotic, dangerous and cryptically courteous at the same time. "Doesn't everyone want their parents dead?" he asks nonchalantly during the humans' search for ancestral truth. You know, he may have a point.
Welcome to Ridley Scott's cold new alien world.
PROMETHEUS (NC16) Sci-fi/125 minutes Rating: 3/5 stars
