News seldom comes any prettier than that on Taiwan television.
Attractive news anchors are popping up periodically on the entertainment scene and boosting huge followings on their fanpages.
Hey, one has even starred in the music video of Taiwan's hottest singer Jay Chou, while another has shot a contact-lens advertisement.
While they aren't particularly adept at singing or acting, these Taiwanese broadcast darlings - the likes of Ms Wu Yi-jie, Ms Yang Ruo-mei and Ms Wu Shu-yu - are winning fans.
Of course, watching comely news anchors report the latest happenings on air is nothing new in Taiwan, or in other parts of the world, for that matter.
Over in Europe, svelte French presenter Melissa Theuriau sparked off an Internet frenzy, with netizens uploading clips of her, well, reading the news.
In fact, in 2006, British newspaper The Daily Express even voted her as the world's most beautiful news reporter.
Back in Taiwan, newscaster- turned-entertainment host Patty Hou made an impact in the noughties for her telegenic appeal - and was snapped by the paparazzi in Tokyo a few years ago dating Mandopop superstar Chou. (They have since split.)
As for the current batch of Formosa broadcast beauties, one name stands out - that of doe-eyed ingenue Wu Yi-jie, 26.
She has been making a slew of appearances on popular variety shows, such as College Talk and variety show Mr Con And Ms Csi.
Ms Wu first burst onto the scene as a TV broadcast reporter four years ago and is now a news anchor on Taiwan television station cti TV.
Her popularity has skyrocketed - her Facebook fanpage registers 48,000 likes and she is even in the running for FHM's top 100 sexiest babes.
Kudos to her training - Ms Wu didn't blink an eye when she announced recently that she was starring in Chou's music video for the single Not The End Of The World.
I was initially sceptical of her professional standing but, after scouring the Internet for news clips and watching her host the news, I was sold.
She is indeed a rare breed: the lucky ones endowed with both brains and beauty.
A theatre-studies graduate of the elite National Taiwan University, she is known as one of the "five beauties at school".
On air, she's as eloquent as her media colleagues, but she distinguishes herself with a feminine touch, be it her sweet voice or her signature flower brooch.
While she does not possess the commanding presence of experienced veterans such as Ms Shen Chun-hua, Ms Wu's more lighted-hearted style and girlish appeal attracts an important demographic - younger viewers, particularly hot-blooded males.
Sure, the cynic in me sometimes sniffs at the migration of news anchors to showbusiness, and wonders whether the presenters are merely using newscasting as a springboard to launch a more lucrative career in entertainment.
So far, Ms Wu said her heart belongs to hard news.
Only time will tell if she'll keep her word.
