In the light of the debate over the preservation of the Bukit Brown cemetery, here are three timely short films - made by two top female Singaporean directors - which remind us of the importance of not forgetting about a thing called Memory.
The films are part of the Singapore Memory Project run by the National Library Board, which aims to collect, record and preserve five million personal memories of Singapore from Singaporeans by 2015 for future generations.
In the march of time, things get erased, misplaced, waylaid or simply unceremoniously forgotten. That is why memories are important, as the late American writer Saul Bellow reasoned, to "keep the wolf of insignificance from the door".
Here's what to expect.
This fascinating video appeals to your inner snoop, and will give you a taste of The Da Vinci Code in Singapore.
Okay, checking out the graffiti in a dingy stairwell of Chinatown's Pearl Centre where Yangtze Cinema - that quaintly cool bastion of sleaze house-art house - used to sit isn't exactly the stuff of books or movies.
But repeatedly scrawled on the walls there is a mysterious combination of numbers and stick figures.
Could they be gang messages or alien symbols? Or, maybe they were simply the work of some pervert recording how many dirty movies he'd seen.
The narrator of this docu-sleuthing is Debbie Ding, somebody who has been archiving signs and symbols in Singapore.
I have to confess that I'm a big fan of director Tan Pin Pin (Singapore GaGa, Invisible City). She is a premier observer of details and the invisible patterns that link them.
In Yangtze Scribbler, she stirs your curiosity enough to make you think. That's the first step in the path to creating a memory. You'll never forget when something intrigues you. And this short surely does.
The first time I saw this clever experimental clip which features words leading into more words on a starkly white background, I thought it was a student work done by a dictionary fan.
But Tan's six-minute video, dubbed a "visual thesaurus", imprints essential cautionary directions onto your mind the way you'd never forget a letter from a divorce lawyer.
Starting from the key opposing words of "remember" and "forget", the trail leads off to a web of ancillary words that adds more and more meaning and purpose - and finally, danger! - to the one before.
Remember, regain, record, retrieve, observe, witness, discovery, cure, heal, unify, improve; and, conversely, forget, block, bury, erase, leave - each word is connected by moving lines which grow and evolve like a living organism.
If you're some kind of Scrabble freak, you're in for a hypnotic word fest. Just remember to remember the word "remember".
Matthew Tan is Singapore's very own home-grown cowboy who went to Nashville, Tennessee (home of country music), in 1975 with the intention of creating a FSS (famous Singapore song).
In this short, he tells interviewer Adrian Pang that in a motel there, he and a motel employee, Bristow Hopper, came up with Singapore Cowboy, Tan's lonesome ode to local sons in distant lands.
Director Wee Li Lin's (Gone Shopping, Forever) approach is predictable, using yesteryear photos of cheesy hair and clothes to pile on the nostalgia.
The bit before a sit-down interview with Adrian Pang, though, is playfully cheeky as a throng of good ol' gals line- dance, with Tan singing onstage.
It is an articulate Tan who nails down his strange affinity for all things country.
"I lived in Upper Serangoon which was a very ulu place with attap houses," he reveals. "You cannot be any more country than that."
