ARTIST: Tiny Ruins
VENUE: Esplanade Recital Studio
WHEN: Last Friday
ATTENDANCE: 177
SINGAPORE - Personable, critically acclaimed but just shy of widespread popularity. That's how one could describe New Zealand singer-songwriter Hollie Fullbrook, who was the latest artist invited to play in Singapore by promoter Greenhorn Productions, known for its intimate gigs that have featured the likes of Rachael Yamagata and Villagers.
While the venue for Fullbrook's show was around 70 per cent filled, Greenhorn should be applauded for taking a chance on a musician who has only one full-length album: The well-reviewed Some Were Meant For Sea (2011).
Yet, those who attended the 85-minute show have caught Fullbrook at an opportune moment: She is about to embark on her European tour with new material, like Reasonable Man and She'll Be Coming Round, to flaunt.
The moniker, Tiny Ruins, which Fullbrook records and performs under, is apt in view of her devastatingly beautiful songs, like Little Notes and the opening track, Old As The Hills, which have the tendency to linger in their haunting quality.
There is little melodrama to be found in Fullbrook's compositions. But each song glows with subtle grace, delivered as they are with minimalist acoustic strumming and aching vocals stretching from low growls to lilting highs that have you imagining hairline fractures on glass appearing, and then running a little deeper.
All except one track (Cat In The Hallway) of her debut album were performed.
Fullbrook provided disarming insights to her songs. Introducing Priest With Balloons, she recounted a sad but bizarre newspaper article she once read about a Brazilian priest who hurled himself off a cliff on helium-filled balloons.
She also admitted to stealing into a room in her university to play a Steinway grand piano - something which she could do proudly in public these days - before delivering You've Got The Kind Of Nerve I Like and Pigeon Knows on the provided Steinway.
Casual banter ranged from Singapore's famously humid weather (which she described as "a shock to the system"), to an observation that she seemed to find chocolates everywhere in Singapore, which led purposefully to her next song, Just Desserts.
For those not well acquainted with Tiny Ruins, this was a night of startling discovery of her talents. Those who have already listened to her CD to death would undoubtedly have heard new dimensions to her songs - not to mention the privilege of enjoying new tracks and an encore cover of African-American Peg Leg Howell's Rolling Mill Blues.
myp@sph.com.sg
