From the looks of Pulkit Samrat's resume, he is a jack of all trades.
He is a trained graphic designer, a magician, a television actor in no less than Ekta Kapoor mega soap Kyun Kii Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi and Bollywood actor.
Or, as he joked with tabla! while speaking to us from Mumbai about his role in Taj Express, the big Bollywood musical set to make its world premiere in Singapore in June, he is "the master of none".
Taj Express is the all-Indian musical extravaganza, created by Quintessence Entertainment Productions, the brainchild of Shruti Merchant and her siblings Vaibhavi, a popular Bollywood choreographer, and Pranav.
The Delhi-born Samrat is now promoting his first Bollywood film, Bitto Boss, due to be released on April 13.
And he claimed there are plenty of similarities between his character in Taj Express - Vasu, the thief with a heart of gold - and his upcoming movie avatar.
"They are both rough guys, not very educated, they can charm girls but they have a beautiful heart," he said.
Samrat's character is at the heart of the Taj Express tale - Vasu wants a life away from the teeming city of Mumbai and longs for his childhood sweetheart, Meera (Pallavi Sharda). She has run away from home to be with the man of her dreams.
They both board the Taj Express separately and the drama ensues, along with the singing and dancing.
However, Samrat is the first to admit that he had to work very hard on the musical as he was not used to the musical theatre genre.
He recalled going for the auditions after getting a call from the casting agent and realising to his chagrin that the dialogue was in English: "I was given scenes to read and I was expecting it to be in Hindi. Acting in English comes with a different mindset."
It took him four hours to feel ready to face the musical's producer-director Shruti and her team.
Then the only question was... could the former television soap opera actor dance?
After his first rehearsal with the musical's dancers, even Samrat had doubts. "After eight counts, I was lying on the floor. I was thinking to myself 'how am I going to do two whole hours of this?'," he said.
Determined to score the role, he rehearsed so hard that by the time he was called for another round of auditions, he was ready.
He also tapped on his magic skills to impress at the second round. "It was my friend's idea to incorporate magic in the audition and it was a very small trick - I pulled a coin out of a girl's ear," he said.
No surprises that the producers and writers loved it and even worked that skill into his character.
Samrat said the early days of rehearsals were exhausting thanks to the energetic dance numbers: "I would have to dance, do a quick change and get back on stage to say the dialogue without sounding breathless on stage. I was scared of getting it wrong."
Eventually he learnt the steps and picked up the songs; however he gives credit to the musical's production team for working with him. "They worked on me... and with me every step of the way," said Samrat.
He is looking forward to the musical's global debut in Singapore where Taj Express will play from June 6 to 10 at the Esplanade Theatre.
"When I perform live on stage, I feel like a gladiator in front of thousands of people and I am sure the audience will love the show. It has a wonderful colour and energy," he said.
