SINGAPORE - Jay Park took his fans for a ride on Saturday afternoon - literally.
The former leader of popular Korean boy band 2PM was atop the HiPPO tour bus with 10 blushing fangirls as they went past attractions such as the Singapore Flyer and Raffles City mall.
The event was jointly organised by SingTel AMPed and Universal Music.
In town to promote his first solo album New Breed, Park was suitably impressed with his local admirers.
When asked to "confess" their love for him while on board the vehicle, the girls dug deep into their creative pockets.
One ventured: "Have you lost the key?"
Park, 25, who looked bewildered when directed the question, replied: "Key? What key?"
The same fan continued smoothly, to loud cheers all round: "The key to my heart."
Another said that she liked the title track of his album, Know Your Name, because she wanted him to know her name.
Student Vivianne Lee, 14, told The New Paper of the fan event: "It was really fun.
"I cried when I saw him right in front of me. He was funny and down-to-earth; I learnt lots of stuff from him.
"It was a dream come true meeting him, I will always remember this day."
She had confessed to Park earlier: "I love you, I love you, you're so hot and cute, I love you."
The singer replied: "Aww, thank you."
Added student Grace Lim, 20, who had the unnerving task of having to dance like Park in front of him: "I felt honoured to do the dance.
"I'm a dancer and singer as well, so I really appreciate his skills."
Said Ms Evelyn Fu, marketing executive for SingTel AMPed: "At first, we wanted to pick 20 fans to share this exclusive bus ride with Jay Park.
"But to make it even more exclusive and intimate, we decided to pick only 10 fans. These are the fans who downloaded the most Jay Park songs via SingTel AMPed."
Though the rain in the morning had threatened to put a dampener on things, the sun beat down on the upper deck of the HiPPO bus with a vengeance.
Not that anyone minded it one bit.
The girls also got to play Truth Or Dare with Park, who sported a sleeveless tee that showed off his tattoos (including stars on his neck).
Fans who incorrectly guessed Park's chest size, waist size and shoe size had to shout out to people walking along the streets.
As the bus passed The Cathay, all 10 fans yelled out Park's name, and he waved to the smiling passers-by below.
The half-hour ride was, according to the girls, over too soon, and they had to bid farewell to their idol.
Kudos to Park who had managed to come out of his shell during his interaction with his fans because he seemed subdued at the press conference held a day earlier at The Fullerton Hotel.
He told the local media that the reason he chose Know Your Name for the title track of his album was because the scenario depicted in the song resonated with him.
Know Your Name is about a boy who meets a girl whom he wants to take things slow with - for example, getting to know her and her name first.
Said Park: "Know Your Name wasn't written for someone special; it's a song that everyone can enjoy.
"How a girl can get a first date with me is by being interesting and down-to-earth, as I'm a very down-to-earth person. If she's not crazy, she'll score a second date."
He also said that it would be nice if his partner could cook, but that isn't a deal-breaker.
On him being physically close to other guys in his music videos, he said with a grin: "Yes, I am touchy-feely with guys; we're not afraid to touch each other...
"It's... not in a weird way, but in a sentimental way."
