Celebrity cosplay ambassador Alodia Gosiengfiao, bowled the fan-boys (and girls) over with her sex appeal at the Malaysian Games and Comic Convention (MGCC).
Alodia hails from the Philippines and is no stranger to Malaysian fans.
They simply can't get enough of Alodia. If you remember, she was here to launch the Animax Carnival in March.
The 24-year-old Manila-based cosplay queen made a swift return to these shores with a two-day appearance at the inaugural MGCC at KDU University College, Petaling Jaya, Selangor last weekend.
The tall, slim, and very attractive Alodia (who certainly looked good with long red hair and a black catsuit as the Black Widow from The Avengers), however, wanted to remind the masses that she remains a 'geek' at heart.
"I'm a huge gamer, " said Alodia, who is of Filipino, Chinese and Spanish descent.
"The last game I played would be Call of Duty. I love drawing, I love gadgets, anything geeky!
"Right now, I haven't been playing much, but if I had the time, I would definitely check out Diablo 3." said Alodia, who has appeared twice on the Philippine FHM's "100 Sexiest Women" poll and has a large fan base (alongside her sister Ashley) with over a million Facebook fans and over a hundred thousand followers on Twitter.
Like your average girl-next-door type, she was far removed from the celebrity trappings. Instead, she preferred talking about games.
Born in Quezon, the Phillipines, Alodia started cosplaying at the age of 15, joining various competitions in Manila.
She rose to prominence after winning third place at the 2003 C3 Convention for her cosplay of Gun Mage Rikku of Final Fantasy X-II, and has since cosplayed (cosplay is short for 'costume play'), many characters from over 40 anime, movie and video game titles including Masane Amaha from anime Witchblade, Morrigan Aensland from fighting game Dark Stalkers, and Shana from anime Shakugan no Shana.
She is also an Ambassador and VJ for Animax-Asia, the co-host of Filipino TV program Laugh Out Loud, and been featured in many international magazines and TV shows.
Alodia said she enjoyed cosplaying as schoolgirl characters, as their costumes were easy to do, and had wide appeal.
"Even people who don't understand or don't know what cosplay is, they still get excited by them," she said.
Alodia added that she made some of her costumes herself, if she had the time, but sometimes also worked with her friends. Good cosplay, she said, was not only getting a good costume, but also making sure it fit well.
"Most of the time, I do my props." she said. "Like weapons, armour, accessories."
According to Alodia, the appeal of cosplay was that it was a combination of many things she liked.
"Basically, I really love video games. And sometimes I love my character so much, so I cosplay as them," said Alodia. "I'm also an artist at heart, I do paintings and do crafts. So cosplay is a combination of all my hobbies."
Her favourite character to cosplay was the Baroness from the film GI Joe, Alodia said, although if she had to pick one of her characters to be, it would be the Black Widow.
"I think the Black Widow kicks a**! She's girl power."
Asked about future projects, Alodia said she had finished filming a movie in the Phillipines, which would be out in June, and had another movie due to be out in August.
"Actually there are a lot of surprises coming, which I can't tell you," Alodia teased. "But I will say they are related to Japanese culture."
