Popular Malaysian actress Zahida Rafik has dismissed allegations that she received RM1.5 million (S$610,000) from an Umno minister with whom she is said to be in an "intimate relationship".
She told liberal news portal Malaysiakini.com that she is planning to take legal action against her accusers.
Mr Noor Azman Azemi, a driver, had lodged a police report on March 13, following an accusation by the actress that he had absconded with RM200,000of her company's funds.
He claimed that an Umno minister, for whom he had worked, had paid the actress up to RM1.5 million in four months and had an "intimate relationship" with her that had spanned three years.
A relative of the driver gave a copy of the report to opposition Ampang MP Zuraida Kamaruddin, who revealed the contents to journalists and questioned the source of the minister's funds, the liberal website reported.
In the police report, the driver called himself the "trusted middleman" who helped channel the funds into the personal account of the actress.
Asked about the matter by her fans on Twitter, Zahida said: "I haven't been doing nothing about it. My lawyers are settling the matter right now actually! So let them, okay! Wait for the good news, okay!"
Her "relationship" with the minister has been doing the rounds of the entertainment industry for years, but Zahida has always maintained her innocence.
Responding to numerous hostile tweets, she said that "only God knows her real story and all others should not speculate".
"Excuse me, I work hard for the money. If you have no money, I can donate a bit," she was quoted as saying.
"It's okay, Allah knows the truth... You are jealous... I'm just going to smile because Allah and I know the truth."
In the police report, which was distributed to the press by Ms Zuraida, Mr Noor Azman claimed that the amounts received by the actress included RM58,000 last October, RM112,000 in November, RM330,000 in December, and RM510,000this January.
Weekly meetings He also claimed that the minister had told him to keep tabs on the actress and that he had weekly meetings with the actress in Kuala Lumpur hotels.
At every meeting, the minister would hand over RM100,000 to RM200,000, and Mr Noor Azman would accompany the actress to credit it into her bank account in Menara Perkeso, Jalan Ampang, the driver alleged in the report.
But Zahida is alleging that Mr Noor Aman had run away with RM200,000 of her company's funds and lodged a police report on the matter last month.
The police are investigating her claims, the report added.
