On her Facebook page, Ms Priscilla Chan writes that she is a "simple creature" and, so far, her low-key profile has proven her words to be true.
Even the 100-odd guests at her wedding - a private ceremony held in Palo Alto, California - were kept in the dark, thinking that they were attending her graduation party.
Along with hubby Mark Zuckerberg, Ms Chan yesterday updated her relationship status to "married" on her Facebook page, where her life event, "married Mark Zuckerberg", had close to 20,000 likes as of press time. On Mr Zuckerberg's page, the number of "likes" was more than 700,000.
The new "Mrs Facebook" loves "cooking and soft things".
And she likes "the food network, warm places, sun-dried tomatoes and diet a&amp;w", the tens of thousands of people who went to her page yesterday read.
Their updates also attracted hundreds of comments, the majority of which were congratulations from friends and well- wishers.
But coming right a day right after Facebook's historic initial public offering, the news also triggered some unsolicited advice on pre-nuptial agreements, such as from real-estate mogul Donald Trump, who tweeted: "Mark Zuckerberg - get a pre-nup."
But, from what little that is known of Ms Chan, she's not likely to be riding on the coat- tails of Mr Zuckerberg, tech billionaire or not.
Last Monday, she obtained her medical degree from the University of California (UC), San Francisco, moving closer to her goal of becoming a paediatrician.
Her medical ambitions have also influenced Mr Zuckerberg, inspiring him to add an organ-donor feature to Facebook, which aims to ease the process of organ donation.
Over dinner, Ms Chan often told stories about patients she met "getting sicker as they don't have the organ that they need".
That resonated with Mr Zuckerberg, who launched the new feature on Facebook on May 1. She's also not a pushover.
According to a book by Sarah Lacy, she imposed strict rules on their relationship.
Mr Zuckerberg had to give the couple "one date per week, a minimum of a hundred minutes of alone time, not in his apartment, and definitely not at Facebook".
The 27-year-old was born in Braintree, Massachusetts, 25 minutes away from Harvard University, which both she and Mr Zuckerberg attended.
But their meeting came completely by chance.
It was a Friday night in 2003, and Mr Zuckerberg's fraternity house was having a party.
There was a queue outside the toilet, and Ms Chan and Mr Zuckerberg struck up a conversation while waiting.
"He was this nerdy guy who was just a little bit out there," she told the New Yorker in an interview in 2010.
They started dating in 2003, and Ms Chan moved into Mr Zuckerberg's Palo Alto home in 2010.
The latter, notoriously private, announced his relationship on Facebook only in 2010 - seven years into the relationship, according to the Daily Mail.
The 28-year-old showed the same dedication to privacy for his wedding, forsaking extravagance for a simple gathering.
The couple continue to live in their Palo Alto home, which they share with their Hungarian Sheepdog named Beast.
The canine has its own Facebook page with over 550,000 likes.
Beast's introduction reads: "I live in Palo Alto with Mark and Cilla. I like cuddling and herding things."
