He wanted to escape to a remote corner of the world for some rest and relaxation.
In addition to "clearing his head" and recharging his artistic vision, local film-maker Royston Tan had a more concrete reason for heading to Iceland in February this year - to catch the Northern Lights (aurora borealis).
The 35-year-old, who visited the country with a male friend, recounted to The New Paper: "There was a storm on the first day, and it was also constantly raining or snowing, so I was disappointed I didn't see the aurora borealis.
"I'd also been stressed and a little burnt-out by work, and Iceland is definitely far enough away from the madding crowd.
"I also needed time to visualise my work for the dance video for the (ballet) Rite Of Spring(which was performed at the Esplanade Concert Hall last week)."
The highlight of Tan's five-day trip to the land of fire and ice was a dip in the Blue Lagoon geothermal spa.
He said: "When I first saw the Blue Lagoon, my jaw just dropped and hung there as I kept thinking that someone must have 'painted' the lagoon's water for it to have such a vivid hue of blue.
"When I got in, it was super 'shiok' to bathe in such warm water outdoors while snowflakes are falling gently on your face.
"People also apply the clay from the Blue Lagoon on their bodies, which I'm told is good for the complexion."
Although Tan stayed at a hotel in the capital Reykjavik during his entire vacation, he took many road trips out into the boonies.
He said: "Iceland is such a charming and beautiful place, despite the fact that parts of the landscape resemble the moon's.
"There are also many Icelandic legends about the hidden people (huldofolk), which are very intriguing and interesting to hear."
Tan also had a hankering for Icelandic cuisine, which included minke whale meat.
He said: "It's a non-endangered species, so I didn't feel bad dining on it. It tastes like beef but has a very fishy smell."
Best of all, the self-confessed lobster fan also got the chance to indulge his cravings.
"I ate two months' worth of lobster in five days!
"Lobster in Iceland is amazing, whether on its own or in a big bowl of soup, which you can get for under US$9 (S$11.50) and which is big enough to feed two. You can also get a baby lobster buffet for about US$10."
Tan, who's a big fan of Icelandic music acts Bj&ouml;rk and Sigur R&oacute;s, was equally effusive about the Icelandic people, whom he described as "masters of deadpan humour".
He said: "For example, they joked that the US embassy (in Iceland) has more guards than the entire Icelandic National Police, because of the low crime rate.
"They also said that this (situation) will change because they now need more officers to arrest all the 'corrupt bankers' (in light of the Icelandic financial crisis).
"Besides that, the Icelandic people have also had to endure the (2010) eruptions of Eyjafjallaj&ouml;kull. Their attitude to life's problems is to face them with a smile while ploughing on.
"They may not be able to solve these difficulties, but at least they can laugh at them, and I think that's something Singaporeans could certainly learn to do."
Tan also observed that they have a very unique look, similar to Eastern Europeans but with oriental features.
"This gave me the idea of shooting a wide range of faces for my upcoming video for this year's National Day Parade (where Tan will feature at least 5,000 people singing the National Anthem).
"It was my first trip to Iceland, but it definitely won't be my last!"
Did you know
LOCATED in the heart of the Svartsengi Resource Park, the man-made Blue Lagoon's sapphire waters were created by runoff from the Svartsengi Power Station and contain substantial amounts of silica and sulphur, which are reputed to help treat the skin condition psoriasis.
For an island that's only 103,000 sq km in size, Iceland's population of nearly 320,000 live in a country with numerous volcanoes and dozens of waterfalls.
Iceland has no regular army, navy or air force. The Icelandic National Police and Icelandic Coast Guard provide internal and external security respectively.
