Actor Huang Yiliang had threatened to expose a pet owner's misdeed by making the video and photos public.
However, the tables were turned when she lodged a police report against him for hurting her.
The court heard yesterday that Huang, 50, had pleaded guilty to hurting Ms Tan Buay Huang. The former actor, whose real name is Ng Aik Leong, was fined $3,000.
On May 20 last year, Ms Tan was walking her dog along the driveway of Block 122, Toa Payoh Lorong 2, when it pooped.
Despite carrying a plastic bag with her, the 48-year-old pet owner ignored the faeces and continued on her way.
Her irresponsible act irked Huang, who had witnessed the incident. He was sitting inside his BMW and waiting to pick up his family then.
Enraged, he drove up to Ms Tan, stopped his car and chided her for not clearing the faeces.
He even whipped out his handphone, recorded a video and took photos of her. Ms Tan, in return, mimicked him and recorded him using her handphone.
At this point, Huang left his car and told her: "Now then you pick them up!"
Even as Ms Tan cleared the faeces, he continued to bully her and threatened to make the video and photos public.
When Huang returned to his vehicle, Ms Tan decided to call the police and stood in front of the car to prevent him from leaving.
Drove forward
Undeterred, he drove forward and knocked her legs lightly.Ms Tan then moved to the driver's side of the BMW and slapped the window.
That was when he exited the car a second time and turned violent.
Huang grabbed the victim's neck and shoved her over a distance. She eventually lost her balance and fell.
His hand still on her neck, he pinned her to the ground forcefully and continued to scold her.
The altercation only ended after Ms Tan shouted at him and he released her.
She suffered abrasions on her limbs and was sent to Tan Tock Seng Hospital for treatment. She was also given three days of medical leave.
A scar on her right elbow remains as a physical reminder of the incident.
District Judge Lee Poh Choo was critical of both parties.
She referred to Ms Tan as "an irresponsible dog owner who displayed ungracious behaviour".
As for Huang, she said he was right to confront the woman but had gone overboard and acted in an ungentlemanly manner and ungraciously.
Huang, a former MediaCorp artiste, left the company after 20 years in 2008 to set up his own production house. Striking out on his own has not been smooth sailing for him. In 2009, his directorial debut Autumn In Winter was a flop and went straight to DVD.
The famously outspoken man has also ruffled some feathers in showbiz over the years.
In his acceptance speech at the 2003 Star Awards, he made a sarcastic jibe at his former wife.
After yesterday's hearing, Huang told reporters outside the court that he was satisfied with the sentence.
Dressed in a white and blue long-sleeved shirt and dark-coloured trousers, he apologised for committing the offence.
The first-time offender remained adamant that he only pinned Ms Tan to the ground because she had kicked his car, as argued by his defence counsel K Balachandran.
He had seen other instances when dog faeces was found on the ground. This was, however, the first time he caught a pet owner leaving her dog's poo uncleared.
The maximum penalty for voluntarily causing hurt is two years' jail and a $5,000 fine.
valkoh@sph.com.sg
