The following is the second part of a two-part story of how Japanese transsexual TV personality Ai Haruna, 39, suffered from and overcame gender identity disorder.
After the operation, Haruna continued to work at the "newhalfs" (transsexuals and male transvestites) club. When she turned 20, opportunities to appear on impersonation TV programs suddenly increased. One day, she was scouted by a Tokyo entertainment agency. She then left her hometown in Osaka Prefecture for Tokyo.
However, there wasn't as much work in Tokyo as Haruna expected, and she quit the agency about one year later. After that, she worked at various places, including a restaurant in Tokyo, and opened her own small bar about 10 years ago.
Soon after, Haruna developed a polyp on her throat and could not speak. She would write messages to communicate with customers at the bar when taking orders and settling bills, but could not entertain them with conversation.
"My earnings from the bar were an important way to make a living. I felt pressed--if customers didn't visit my bar, I would be in financial trouble," she said.
But Haruna's struggle helped change things for the better. In the bar, she began lip-syncing and shadowing TV performances of singers Aya Matsuura and Seiko Matsuda, which was a hit with the bar's patrons.
"At first, I didn't know whether my impersonation would be something people laughed at, but I dared to try anyway. In the end, it became my trademark," she said.
Her voice returned about six months later, and she polished her techniques for lip-syncing and mimicking Matsuura's performances.
When she demonstrated her technique at a party, she caught the eye of a man working in the entertainment industry. Since then, she has received an increasing amount of work and fulfilled a dream in 2008 when she released her first single as a singer.
Haruna didn't want to admit that she was a man. But now, she's come to think it's her individual character to combine feminine and masculine attributes.
"I became a woman physically, but sometimes I want to speak in a deep voice. I won't change my sex to female on my family register either," she said.
In 2010, Haruna tried to run a 24-hour ultramarathon for charity on a TV program for the NTV network. She received encouragement and support from people along the marathon route and in faxes sent to the program.
She then realized that she was supported by people all over Japan.
After the Great East Japan Earthquake in March last year, Haruna headed to the devastated areas.
"[I felt] I must do what I can," she said. She carried relief supplies to the areas and prepared miso soup with pork and vegetables for disaster victims.
Even now, she takes a few days each month to go to the afflicted areas and participate in events to support them.
In April, Haruna released her fourth single, "Motto Ai o." She said, "I put my heart into that song, thinking that if the entire world is tied together with deep love, people will be happy."
Looking to the future, Haruna intends to increase her international appeal. In 2009, she won the "Miss International Queen" transsexual beauty pageant held in Thailand.
"If I can make an impression on people, I don't care if they think I'm an odd person. If people are interested in me, I don't care if it's just for fun," Haruna said. "I'd like to make myself known to other people and take on activities to encourage people with gender identity disorder or people struggling with diseases."
