Mike Holmes gets hugged a lot.
In the Season 7 premiere of Holmes On Homes, he's fixing this nice middle-aged woman's balcony, and she can't keep her hands off him.
At one point, he remarks how much she likes to hug, and she hugs him again.
Take that, subtle admonitions!
Later in the episode, she refers to him as her "stallion" - he's like her home improvement gigolo.
It's easy to see the appeal of Mike, who is what they call these days a "retrosexual" - a human male who looks and behaves like an actual human male.
He's a superstar in his native Canada, where he has been on television for more than a decade.
He has his own line of workwear and best-selling books.
Recently there's been a bit of a shake-up in the real-estate genre, with one of the families featured in House Hunters stepping forward to reveal that the show is completely fake.
The concept is supposed to be that a family goes through the process of choosing and buying a house. But this particular family had already bought the house we see them choose in the show.
*Gasp!*
It's hard to imagine that Mike will become embroiled in a similar scandal.
Number one, he's Canadian.
The Canadians' inborn fear of Mounties is an effective deterrent against malfeasance.
Number two, he's the greatest guy in the whole world - and I actually think I actually mean that.
Sincerity. Weird!
He reminds me a bit of Jamie Oliver, the British TV chef who's become a champion of healthy food.
Like Jamie, Mike has a robust, enthusiastic approach to his work, valuing simplicity, quality and integrity above fancy-pantsiness.
Like Jamie, Mike is also a crusader.
Through The Holmes Foundation, he works to ensure that "residential renovation and construction is done right - the first time!"
He gives talks, headlines events, gives out scholarships, that kind of thing.
But even if you didn't know any of this background stuff, it would be clear that Mike has a passion for his craft just from watching the show.
The basic idea behind Holmes On Homes is that Mike swoops in to save the day after an incompetent contractor has bungled a job.
Apparently, every contractor in Canada besides Mike is a lazy, incompetent, thieving dog.
In this first episode of Season 7, Mike is there to build Huggy Lady a new deck because her old one collapsed, dropping her and three of her friends 5m to the concrete below.
They all ended up in the hospital with shattered bones.
Mike's disgust with the guy responsible for the mishap is palpable - this is Mike's schtick, but you can tell he really feels it.
The fun of watching Holmes On Homes is when it compares the feeble, dunderheaded work done by Canada's lamest builders to Mike's battleship-sturdy creations.
Whereas the previous guy only used like five short bolts and a smattering of nails to secure the deck - you can imagine the pud-knocker tapping away with a tack hammer - Mike secures the thing with 20 bolts the approximate length and diameter of broom handles.
He runs concrete foundations 2m into the ground in order to stabilise the supporting columns.
If a nuclear bomb ever goes off in St John, New Brunswick, the last thing standing will be Huggy Lady's balcony.
THIS is how to pleasure a woman.
Catch new episodes of Holmes On Homes Wednesdays at 9.15pm on BBC Lifestyle (StarHub channel 432).
