LOS ANGELES - Alex the lion and his wild friends in Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted retained their crown as king of the American box office this weekend, industry figures showed on Sunday.
For the second week running, the cartoon romp starring Ben Stiller that sees the animals rampage through Europe with the help of a run-down circus as they try to return to a New York zoo stayed at the top of the charts, according to Exhibitor Relations.
The movie took US$35.5 million (S$45 million) over the weekend. The third installment of the wildly popular Madagascar franchise has now taken more than US$120 million since its debut last week.
Ridley Scott's hotly anticipated sci-fi adventure Prometheus remained in second place with US$20.2 million, the box office tracker said, adding that the prequel to the Alien movies had now pocketed some US$88.8 million.
But the duo's grip on the charts, saw Rock Of Ages starring Tom Cruise enter at third place earning just US$15 million on its opening weekend, despite weeks of pre-release publicity.
Snow White And The Huntsman, starring Charlize Theron and Kristen Stewart of Twilight fame, dropped down to fourth place with US$13.8 million. It has total takings of US$122 million so far.
Meanwhile, Adam Sandler's comedy That's My Boy, which has been panned by the critics, entered the charts in fifth place with US$13 million.
The reunion of Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones as secret agents battling aliens living on Earth in the sci-fi comedy sequel Men In Black 3 took US$10 million for the sixth spot.
In seventh place was comic book superhero blockbuster The Avengers, pocketing US$8.8 million. It has so far raked in more than US$586 million in North America alone.
The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel, a comedic drama about British retirees in India, took in US$2.2 million for eighth place.
Wes Anderson's Moonrise Kingdom starring Bill Murray and Edward Norton, about young lovers on the run, rose up the charts to ninth place from 10 last week with US$2.1 million in ticket sales.
Rounding out the top 10 was romantic comedy What To Expect When You're Expecting, about five interconnected couples sharing the experience of having a baby, with US$1.3 million.
