US pop star Lady Gaga wowed some 50,000 people in the audience at the Olympic stadium in Seoul with her provocative but creative stage costumes and performances.
Riding on to the the stage on a horseback, clad in a futuristic body suit and metal headpieces designed by Italian fashion power house Giorgio Armani specially for the concert, Lady Gaga made her first official appearance here, saying the past week felt like a month to her.
The 26-year-old artist indirectly criticized the Korean government that banned under 18s to attend her concert. "I was told that your government decided that my shows should be 18 or over... So, I'll make sure it will be!"
Concert organizers checked IDs of the audience and asked them to wear a paper wrist band reading "18 above."The state-run ratings board imposed the age limit for younger audience claiming her song "Just Dance" is inappropriate for the youth. And captivate the audience, she did. Lady Gaga's "Born This Way Ball"concert mesmerized the Korean audience for over two hours with innovative and breathtaking stage installation and ideas.
"(It was) imaginative and futuristic," said Claire Hong, 45, who attended the concert with her girlfriend. "It was fantastic and out-of-this-world show performance, but nothing like what the authorities and the Christian groups worried about."
Lady Gaga's concert drew attention not only because the Seoul concert kicks off her world tour, but also because her concert was opposed by some conservative Christian groups here, accusing her of pornography and promoting homosexuality. However, the singer did not comment on the Christian groups protesting before and during the concert.
Friday night's event was only the second concert by a foreign artist held at the country's largest sports and entertainment venue. The late Michael Jackson held a concert at the same arena in 1996. After Seoul, Lady Gaga will take her pop hits and eccentric costumes to Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, New Zealand and perform six shows around Australia.
The pop artist is expected to hold 110 shows this year, including the initial 11 concerts in Asia.
Lady Gaga, whose real name is Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta, became famous with the hits songs "Bad Romance" and "Poker Face."
