PETALING JAYA, Malaysia - Wanting to experience different things throughout the various stages of her life, image consultant Rachel Sua decided that she wanted to become a beauty queen after turning 40.
So, the mother of a five-year-old son prepared herself physically and mentally and joined the Mrs Malaysia International 2012/13 in Kuala Lumpur last Saturday.
"I exercised to keep fit, attended singing classes as well as grooming and catwalk courses to prepare myself," said Sua, 41.
Her work paid off. Sua beat 19 other contestants to win the title.
She will now represent Malaysia at the Mrs International World pageant in the United States in November.
Sua, a former Malaysia Airlines and Korean Airlines stewardess, said her main motivation was her desire to go through life-changing experiences.
"After I finished my STPM, I left my hometown Muar to Kuala Lumpur and studied to be a chartered secretary and became a company secretary after that.
"In my 20s, I became an air stewardess and began a new chapter in my life," said Sua, who is married to a businessman.
She said that while in her 30s, she quit the airlines and set up her own business and became an image consultant.
"Taking part in a beauty pageant is the path that I have charted for myself now," said Sua, who has made contributing to charity a priority, too.
She puts away money every month for several charities and hopes to help more now that she has won a title.
"Having a title creates influence which I can use to further strengthen my charity work," said Sua.
Sua walked away with RM5,000 (S$2,047) cash and sponsored prizes worth RM36,000.
Besides carrying out image consultancy work for corporations, Sua is also a columnist with a Chinese vernacular daily and a fashion magazine.
She has acted in several locally produced Chinese dramas and a Hong Kong drama.
The pageant was organised by Malaysian franchise holder Lim Siew Cheng, who is also the reigning Mrs Commonwealth World title holder.
This year's pageant was produced and directed by event promotion company Fashionista Pro founder C.T. Chin.
