TARSEM Singh's previous film, Greek mythology-inspired Immortals (2011), didn't quite succeed because it took itself much too seriously. The rah-rah bravado it tried to whip up came across as hackneyed and over the top instead.
With Mirror Mirror, the India-born director's attempt to lighten the mood is a lot more fun to watch.
Incidentally, a forthcoming film - Snow White And The Huntsman - re-invented the same Brothers Grimm classic, but with a more solemn tone. The contrast between the two films can be seen most clearly in the evil queens.
While Huntsman's queen - played by Charlize Theron - is evil and ghastly, Mirror Mirror's Julia Roberts prefers to ham it up in her queenly role.
With her non-stop barrage of memorable lines from a tonguein- cheek script penned by Melisa Wallack and Jason Keller, she steals the show from everyone else, including the sweetly innocent Snow White, played by up-and-coming actress Lily Collins (The Blind Side, Abduction).
Well, you know the story, at least the parts that adhere to the original plot: The King marries another woman after the death of his first wife, but he subsequently disappears and is presumed dead. The second wife, the spiteful and corrupt Queen, takes over the running of his kingdom and keeps her stepdaughter, Snow White, locked up in the palace.
As taxes rise and the kingdom's happiness index drops, Snow White blossoms into an 18-year-old beauty, challenging the Queen's status as the "fairest of them all". Worse, she attracts the attention of visiting Prince Alcott (Armie Hammer), whom the Queen is eyeing for herself.
Of course, the screenwriters have taken liberties in this re-imagined story. After escaping the Queen's evil ploy to have her murdered in the woods, Snow White finds herself taken in by seven dwarves who are actually a band of outlaws.
Talk about overcompensating for an inferiority complex: the dwarves have a penchant for committing robberies on stilts, so as to pass off as fearsome giants. It's only natural that these wayward dwarves soon teach Snow White some crucial self-defence skills and how to fight back against the Queen to reclaim the kingdom.
Supporting actors like Hammer and Nathan Lane (who assumes the role of Brighton, the Queen's long-suffering servant) gamely play along for comedic effect - one bares his hairy chest while the other gets transformed into a cockroach.
Roberts undeniably reaps the most merriment onscreen by verbally abusing those around her while dressed in extravagant costumes. She also undergoes a fantasy spa session that I can say, with certainty, you won't find in any five-star Balinese resort.
Singh could have taken more risks and turned this fairy tale even more deviously on its head. But you really can't complain because, as with his past ventures, Mirror Mirror is a visual feast of stunning images, from the castle's ornate furniture and majestic interiors, to the atmospheric snow-clad forests.
Costume design by the late, Oscar-winning Eiko Ishioka (Bram Stoker's Dracula) is definitely top rate. Let's just say that what Snow White wears to the palace ball would outshine even that infamous swan dress flaunted by Icelandic singer Bjork at the 2001 Academy Awards.
