LOS ANGELES - Smash hit "The Hunger Games" finally lost its position atop the North American box office, as debut rom-com "Think Like A Man" stormed to the number one slot, final figures showed Monday.
"Think Like A Man," an ensemble film based on Steve Harvey's best-selling book that earned mediocre reviews, made US$33.6 million (S$42.2 million) in its opening weekend, according to box office tracker Exhibitor Relations.
In second place was another debut date movie, romantic drama "The Lucky One," an adaptation of a Nicholas Sparks book starring teen heartthrob Zac Efron and Taylor Schilling, which made US$22.5 million in its opening days.
Falling to the third spot was the action film blockbuster "Hunger Games" starring Jennifer Lawrence, with just US$14.7 million this week but a whopping US$357.1 million total over its five-week release.
Legions of fans have flocked to see the movie, based on a book by Suzanne Collins, in which a teenage girl played by Lawrence fights to win a death match/television reality show featuring children in a post-apocalyptic world.
In fourth was another debut, "Chimpanzee," a true-life, child-friendly adventure tale of a special chimp that brought in US$10.7 million.
It came just ahead of fifth place finisher "The Three Stooges," in its second week. The Farrelly brothers' tribute to the US comedy trio brought in US$9.8 million.
Sixth position went to the much-hyped horror spoof "The Cabin in the Woods," with US$8 million. It was written and produced by "Avengers" director Joss Whedon.
"American Reunion" - the latest sequel to the 1999 hit "American Pie" - came in seventh with US$5.5 million during its third weekend in theaters.
In eighth place with a US$5 million take was the 3D-enhanced re-release of 1997's "Titanic" starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet, which coincides with this month's 100th anniversary of the liner's sinking.
Next came "21 Jump Street," a reboot of the 1980s TV series, which took in US$4.8 million for ninth place.
It was followed by a remake of the fable Snow White, "Mirror Mirror" starring Julia Roberts as the evil queen, scoring US$4.4 million to round out the top 10.
