What: The Jesus And Mary Chain Venue: Esplanade Concert Hall Attendance: 1,811 When: Last Saturday
There was a palpable sense of irony in the choice of venue for last Saturday's gig by Scottish alternative rockers The Jesus And Mary Chain, or JAMC.
A concert hall with state- of-the-art acoustics is a strange fit for an outfit known for their signature dissonance conjured from distorted guitars awash with screechy feedback.
The band were formed in Glasgow in 1983 around the nucleus of brothers Jim and William Reid on vocals and guitars.
They gained a cult following and some degree of success for their short, laconic, drug-addled and often-violent sets involving damage to stage equipment, a la punk rockers The Sex Pistols.
The band broke up in 1999 amid, among other things, growing tension between the siblings, and regrouped sporadically in 2007 before reuniting in March this year to play at the South By Southwest, or SXSW, film, music and interactive festival at Austin, Texas, in the United States.
The current line-up comprises Jim, 51, and William, 53, on vocals and lead guitar respectively, and John Moore (rhythm guitar), Phil King (bass) and Brian Young (drums).
Jim was not joking when he muttered in a morose Scottish drawl towards the end of last Saturday's 17-song 75-minute set that "we don't rehearse very often".
Like their earlier gigs at SXSW and in Hong Kong last Wednesday, JAMC's Singapore show was marred by false starts, the band not playing in sync, William's guitar being off and needing tuning, and Jim's expletive-laden barbs at William. It also stuck largely to the same playlist, featuring tracks such as Just Like Honey, Reverence, Taste Of Cindy, Sidewalking and Never Understand.
The audience, which filled between half and three quarters of the hall's capacity, seemed blind to these faults. Predictably, everyone was up on their feet from the word go when the opening strains of Snakedriver came on, and remained standing throughout.
JAMC may now be a tamer shadow of their former self. Still, there was a discernible tinge of elation in the air as the crowd walked out after the show, amid wailing feedback in the background.
