Bubbly actress Patricia Mok is 40, but she has the girly enthusiasm of a woman half her age when she's talking tech.
Mok - who joined local talent management agency Fly Entertainment this month - is a big proponent of social media, having reopened her Twitter account about two weeks ago.
She told The New Paper: "I got on Twitter shortly after it was launched, but there were so few people using it then that it wasn't really worth tweeting on a regular basis.
"Now that everyone's using it, Twitter helps me stay in touch with other celebrities, especially when we're usually too busy to call or message each other.
"Just the other day I tweeted (MediaCorp actress) Jeanette Aw on a whim and we ended up trading shots of us jumping in the air!"
Though battered and scratched, it's still very much Mok's beloved gadget at live shows and concerts.
She loved the IXUS series so much that this is the third such model she has bought.
With a full charge in the batteries she kept as backups from her previous cameras that have been discarded, she is now able shoot hundreds, if not thousands of images in one sitting on her 8GB SD memory card.
She said excitedly: "I dropped it three times at the Faye Wong concert in Shanghai back in late 2010, but luckily it still works.
"It's portable, but it's also very good at capturing images in low-light conditions, especially live shows held at night.
"People will also look over my shoulder at concerts and tell me that my camera's zoom is excellent.
"If it had Wi-Fi for me to upload my pictures instantly, it'd be perfect."
When it comes to day-to-day photography, Mok relies on her trusty iPhone 4's camera and the LINE Camera app to send her snapshots across Weibo, Twitter and Facebook with a single touch.
What's more, she can edit any picture using the app's kawaii filters and brushes that bring to mind the Neoprints of yesteryear.
Mok said: "It's great for photo editing on the fly. What's more, it has more interesting filters than (popular photography app) Instagram."
With a few deft clicks and drags, Mok created a ringtone from scratch on the spot using the Apple software GarageBand in conjunction with iTunes on her MacBook Pro.
From there, it was a matter of syncing her iPhone 4 with her MacBook Pro, and - voila! - Mok had a new entry to her library of over two dozen self-created ringtones.
She said half-jokingly: "I recorded the sound of the Formula 1 cars at the 2010 Singapore Grand Prix, and every year around September, I'll switch to the 'F1' ringtone and watch all my friends look around in confusion when my phone rings."
Mok, who's a big fan of Madonna, also has custom ringtones for her close friends who call her.
One such example is celebrity hairstylist David Gan, who had the honour of the US pop star's song Masterpiece as his aural moniker.
