In an alternate universe, Akram Khan's Achilles tendon would not have snapped, and audiences here would be treated to his Olivier Award-winning solo-dance piece Desh at the upcoming Singapore Arts Festival.
But snap it did - at a rehearsal in January - and the British-Bangladeshi dancer-choreographer has been resting since, with his upcoming dancing engagements cancelled.
And fans' hopes to see the one-man show, that draws powerfully on his Bangladeshi roots, were - well - Desh-ed.
"I'm much better, I'm 30 per cent to 40 per cent up to where I should be," said Khan, 37, last week, on the phone from London, as he headed to the gym for physiotherapy.
"During the first eight weeks, I was in bed and all my muscles shrivelled away. I had to build it back, so now I swim a lot."
He will, however, be in town later this month for ConversAsians, the Esplanade's performing-arts conference from May 31 to June 2, to give masterclasses.
"We should really use what we have with our traditions in our contemporary work," he said.
"Somehow, you carry your past with you always, and the tendency is to just cut it off like an umbilical cord.")
Vertical Road, the 2010 ensemble piece he choreographed for his Akram Khan Company, will also be staged at the arts festival here next month. The work is a response "to how we are hooked on a man-made concept of time", where faith and spirituality has been replaced by trust in technology.
Unlike linear, man-made "clock-time", he said, Asian time is ritualistic, seasonal and about life and death. Vertical Road is about trying to find that spiritual time.
Fittingly, he is sanguine now about the time he has taken to recuperate: "When I was looking ahead at the six months that I had to retrain and get back to full condition, six months felt like six years at the beginning. But now that I'm halfway through it, it doesn't seem so bad... My mind's been dancing a lot."
He has been busy creating a piece about Russian-born composer Igor Stravinsky for London's Sadler's Wells Theatre. And come next month, he will have danced for the first time since his injury, in the opening ceremony for the London Olympics, helmed by director Danny Boyle - a return to the dance stage that will be watched by a projected 2.5 billion people around the world.
Acknowledging that there is stress, he said: "I am terrified because I just hope that I can make him (Boyle) proud of the moment and the space that he's given me. The pressure is all internal - mine."
Given that Desh won the Best New Dance Production last month at the Laurence Olivier Awards (self-tagged as "British theatre's most sought-after awards" on its website), one might think that Khan has made it into the British mainstream. But the artist still sees himself as an outsider.
"It's nice to be recognised," he said. "At the same time... I realised how out of place I was, and wondered why I won. Most of the pieces winning awards were very much based on the English culture, and my work was more about my parents' culture.
"Maybe that's my problem - I don't know if I'll ever feel completely accepted. I have questions about it, about what I feel about being completely integrated. Part of me feels like there's a bit of tokenism there, which makes me a little sad."
clarac@sph.com.sg
Vertical Road will be staged at Esplanade Theatre on June 1 and June 2 at 8pm. Tickets at $20, $30, $50, $80 and $100 are available from Sistic (call 6348-5555 or go to www.sistic.com.sg).
