SEOUL - As one of Hollywood's top actors, it comes as no surprise that Will Smith can instantly turn a crowd of stern reporters into laughing fans during a press conference in Seoul on Monday.
Once voted Hollywood's most powerful actor, Smith is once again stepping into the comical and familiar shoes of Agent J in his upcoming sequel "Men In Black 3."
Before the conference even started at the Ritz Carlton Hotel, Smith's unmistakable shouts could be heard from behind the curtains, instantly inciting giggles.
Smith also charmed photographers with his "Fresh Prince of Bel-Air" fun-loving and carefree style, striking poses and refusing to sit down.
And even after the actor finally sat down for the conference, a smile never left his face.
"Playing a character three times for me feels like home," Smith told reporters, promoting the only trilogy he has ever made.
The latest black-suited, dark-shaded, bad-memory-erasing flick comes ten years after its last sequel release, which was also the last time Smith visited Korea.
"So for me coming back to something that I know is warm and it's like a family reunion," he said, reminding the crowd that this is his first movie in four years.
And according to the 43-year-old actor, Korea was chosen for the world premiere for the movie because Korea is "blowing up and popping," as a movie market.
The premiere took place at Times Square in Yeongdeungpo, Seoul, Monday evening.
Smith's comments are backed up by the fact that the movie is slated to be released on May 24 in Korea, a day earlier than the US.
And according to director Barry Sonnenfeld, who accompanied Smith along with co-star Josh Brolin, the latest time-traveling movie will have "more action, more aliens, more comedy and more heart."
In "Men In Black 3," Smith's character travels back in time to meet a younger version of his longtime co-star Tommy Lee Jones, who is portrayed by Brolin.
Sonnenfeld, who was with Smith throughout the series, jokingly added that fans would have to wait till 2030 for the sequel to the newest "Men In Black."
Although Smith's roles are more synonymous with action and comedy, he revealed the secret to his Academy Awards nominated performances in "The Pursuit of Happyness" and "Ali."
"I had great models," said Smith, explaining that he found he was a good mimic of people.
"In 'Pursuit of Happyness' I was using my father as a model."
Brolin, most famous for his role as former US President George W. Bush in "W" and "No Country for Old Men," expressed his adoration of highly acclaimed Korean director Park Chan-wook.
"His trilogy I find to be one of the best trilogies that I have ever seen," said Brolin, referring to Park's "Vengeance Trilogy."
Brolin will play the protagonist in Park's Cannes-winning "Oldboy" in the American remake of the film.
"I think director Park is one of the best directors not just in Korea but ever," said Brolin.
Smith is accompanied on his Seoul trip by his wife Jada and their daughter Willow Smith.
Prior to departing LAX, Will Smith laughingly brushed off divorce rumors that have recently surfaced in Hollywood.
