A film about a chess master facing his anxieties before a chess competition won top honours at The New Paper's FiRST Film Fest (FFF) 2012 last night.
And it was a double delight for the winning entry, titled 64.
Not only did the short film win the Best Short Film award, it also won the Favourite Male Performance award for its protagonist, assistant editor Louis Law.
But director Woo Wan Fong's leading man on the night wasn't Law - it was 64's director of photography, Mr Matthew Yang, 21.
Miss Woo, 20, said that they began dating after filming for 64 had finished.
"Matthew and I have known each other for about three years, and we're great friends. Nothing happened between us on the set though. When you're filming, you've got to get your game face on," she said.
Law, 26, chipped in jokingly: "That was the codeword for 64, game face!", explaining that his role in the psychological drama required him to portray many different facial expressions.
Law, who was nominated for Best Actor in last year's FFF for playing a drag queen in his self-directed short film Universal Adapters, said jokingly: "I wasn't to be denied again this year!
"My performance last year was perhaps a little too avant-garde, so this year I tried to find a delicate balance between pleasing the audience and preserving a sense of bleak drama in my character."
Inspiration
Law, who won a $500 Jay Gee Card, cited the films Black Swan and Requiem For A Dream as the inspiration for his acting on 64, adding that the latter really helped when portraying a sense of "utter desolation".
Ngee Ann Polytechnic (NP) lecturer Andrew Millians said that the FFF was a good opportunity for NP's students to broaden their film-making horizons.
"64 and (fellow FFF 2012 Top 11 films) Escape and Made Up were all made for class projects and not even year-end assignments, which have higher grading criteria.
"Our student films are now done for creativity's sake, rather than simply for the grades."
For winning Best Short Film, Miss Woo won more than $5,000 worth of Sony prizes, along with a Media Development Authority (MDA) grant worth up to $10,000.
She will also get the chance to collaborate with veteran film-maker and FFF 2012 judge Jack Neo's film company JTeam Productions and leading production house mm2 Entertainment on a feature-length commercial movie.
Mr Yeo Chun Cheng, the Director of Broadcast, Animation, Film and Music at MDA, said that it was very glad to support the FFF 2012.
"It is a good platform for our aspiring and budding film-makers to showcase their talent and to be discovered. We definitely hope to see more of such events in Singapore," he said.
Hosted by bubbly Radio 91.3 DJs Maddy Barber and Cheryl Miles, the awards ceremony, held at WE Cinemas Suntec, also saw local celebs and guest presenters Pamelyn Chee, Nat Ho and Lawrence Wong gracing the event.
All three agreed that the FFF was an excellent way to grow the local film industry. Said Chee: "There needs to be room for error before people can become good film-makers, and the FFF allows the room for film-makers to experiment and hone their art."
Selected participants from the FiRST 11 (FFF's top 11 entries) will also stand a chance to work with Neo on a full-length feature film.
FiRST editor Jeanmarie Tan said the FFF team is encouraged by the variety and quality of the entries this year.
"We're looking forward to seeing how Jack Neo will help take our undiscovered directors and actors to the next level and make their mark in the local film-making industry."
Neo had already cast the winner of the inaugural FFF, child actor Amos Yee, in a supporting role in his recent film, We Not Naughty.
Ms Gina Goh, the assistant general manager of Levi's, Denizen and Dockers for Jay Gee Group, gave the FFF the thumbs-up.
"The FFF certainly encourages film-making among the youth, and it gets better every year. We'd definitely consider the possibility of working with TNP for future FFFs."
Mr Lawrence Zhang, senior executive of Sony's PI&amp;S marketing division, added that Sony's sponsorship of the FFF 2012 prizes was "a match made in heaven".
He said: "We want to put our Handycams in the hands of budding film-makers and watch them create really nice videos."
Ms Vivien Ong, a senior marketing manager of Eng Wah Global and a judge for FFF 2012, agreed. "Many of the films this year are way better than those you'd find on YouTube.
"We're proud to be partnering TNP for the FFF 2012, where we've discovered quite a few gems." Now in its sophomore year, the FFF 2012 saw a total for 83 entries for both the short film and music video categories.
FFF 2012's first runner-up was the animated short film First Drop, directed by Mr Lee Kok Wei, who walked away with more than $4,000 worth of Sony prizes as well as $500 cash.
The director of the third-placed I Want To Be A Director mockumentary, 17-year-old student Colin Huang, also received more than $3,000 worth of Sony prizes and $300 cash.
The new Sony Creativity Award, which honours the most imaginative and creative short film, was snagged by short film MBS Stopmotion, which featured an innovative stop-motion photography technique.
ggerald@sph.com.sg
