The 2012 MTV Movie awards are here and it's all the rage at my workplace (obviously).
The new Best Music category is filled with hot, exciting bands like Kid Cudi, College and Electric Youth, LMFAO, Figurine and The Chemical Brothers, all of whom have contributed some of the best songs to this year's movies.
I figured I'd share a few of my favourite tunes that I have discovered, thanks to film.
A film by Sofia Coppola that I have seen three times now.
It lets me look at a tiny bit of Tokyo that I have yet to visit.
Thanks to the film, I found about Italian composer Nino Rota, who was responsible for the La Dolce Vita soundtrack (more on him later in this column).
The song La Dolce Vita, which was used in the film, has since become part of my "favourite song" list - something I do not think I would have found at my usual HMV selection.
My sister made me watch this Woody Allen film because she liked the soundtrack so much.
Out of it came the song, I'll See You In My Dreams, performed by the movie's fictional jazz guitarist, Emmet Ray (played by Sean Penn).
It's played throughout the movie, and I did not think much of it. But at some point, it stuck in my head and I did a little research.
Now it's on my playlist more than I thought it'd be.
The French title translates directly into "children's games".
This was a film that I decided to watch when I went through my escargot and European language phase.
I was also going to Paris and wanted an idea of what I was getting myself into - not sure if this movie was the best guide.
But out of it came the tune, La Vie En Rose.
The movie played several versions, including the original by Edith Piaf and covers by Donna Summer, Brazilian a capella group Trio Esperanca, French pop artist Zazie and my personal favourite, Louis Armstrong.
It is one of those tunes that I can have on almost every morning and not tire of.
Never overplayed, never too much, La Vie En Rose literally translates to "life is pink".
Move aside, emo music.
I watched this movie, The Godfather, only recently, after hearing about it for years and always seeing it in the "movies you have to watch" list.
I finally made the effort to pick it up at the DVD store and dedicated two Sundays to watching all three parts.
I can't remember the exact scene, but there was a picturesque view of hills when The Godfather Waltz came on - a tune I have long heard here and there, but never quite knew why it was such a signature.
In love, I did a Google search of who it was by and ah, it was Nino Rota again.
So those are some tunes which I discovered through the help of movies, and I probably wouldn't have known about them otherwise.
I'm looking forward to the coming MTV Movie Awards on June 4. Who knows what new tunes I might discover.
