The Singapore Indoor Stadium ushered in the who's who of Bollywood last night as the International Indian Film Academy Awards (IIFA) celebrated the best of the world's flashiest film industry.
The over five hour long awards night, the highlight of the IIFA Weekend - which included three days' worth of film screenings, a rock concert, a fashion show as well as other festivities - was not just about entertainment, it was about celebrating Indian cinema.
In all, there were over 40 award categories and several fan favourites got their just rewards.
Three films - Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara (You Don't Get Life A Second Time, 2011), The Dirty Picture and Rockstar - emerged early front-runners and they continued their winning streak through the night.
Director Zoya Akhtar`s Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara, which is the story of three friends who go on a road trip in Spain, was the big winner. It won Best Film, Best Director as well as a Best Supporting Actor award for Farhan Akhtar. Earlier, it had taken five trophies in the technical awards category. These included best editing for Anand Subaya, best sound recording mixing for Anuj Mathur and Baylon Fonseca, best choreography for Bosco-Ceaser, best screenplay for Zoya Akhtar and Reema Kagti and best cinematography for Carlos Catalan.
Vidya Balan got the nod for Best Actress for The Dirty Picture. Loosely inspired by the life of Silk Smitha, a sex siren of the 1980s, The Dirty Picture tracks the rise and fall of a dance girl named Reshma (Vidya Balan). A producer who sees her hot, over-the-top dance moves names her Silk, makes an offer she cannot refuse and her journey from a village to the unreal world of films begins. With the aid of catchy lines, cheesy dance moves, brazen cleavage moves, as a sexy temptress, Balan packs on the kilos and goes all out to give Silk a perfect sheen. Balan was a shoo-in for Best Actress for this gutsy role.
Designer Niharika Khan won the award for best costume design for The Dirty Picture and the best make up award went to Vikram Gaekwad for the same film. It also won for best dialogue.
Real-life Rockstar Ranbir Kapoor bagged the best actor award for the film Rockstar, while Oscar-winning composer A R Rahman got the IIFA for music direction.
Here's a look at the main winners:
Best Film: Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara
Actor In A Leading Role: Ranbir Kapoor (Rockstar)
Actress In A Leading Role: Vidya Balan (The Dirty Picture)
Best Director: Zoya Akhtar (Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara)
Actor In Supporting Role: Farhan Akhtar (Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara)
Actress In Supporting Role: Parineeti Chopra (Ladies Vs Ricky Bahl)
Hottest Pair: Ranbir Kapoor, Nargis Fakhri (Rockstar)
Performance in a Comic Role: Riteish Deshmukh (Double Dhamaal)
Performance in a Negative Role: Prakash Raj (Singham)
Best Story: Reema Kagti &amp; Zoya Akhtar (Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara)
Best Debut (Female): Parineeti Chopra (Ladies Vs Ricky Bahl)
Best Debut (Male): Vidyut Jamwal (Force)
Music Direction: AR Rahman-Nadaan Parinde (Rockstar)
Lyrics: Irshad Kamil-Nadaan Parinde (Rockstar)
Playback Singer (Male): Mohit Chauhan - Nadaan Parinde (Rockstar)
Playback Singer (Female): Shreya Ghoshal - Teri Meri (Bodyguard)
Outstanding Achievement in Indian Cinema: Rekha, Ramesh Sippy
Green Award: Dia Mirza
deepikas@sph.com.sg
