THE Ferrari driver, Mr Ma Chi, died on the spot.
His female passenger, Ms Wu Wei Wei and the taxi driver, Mr Cheng Teck Hock, who both had head injuries, were taken to Tan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH).
So was the motorcyclist, Mr Muhammad Najib Ghazali, who suffered spinal injuries.
The taxi passenger, Ms Shigemi Ito, was taken to the Singapore General Hospital (SGH) unconscious.
Following Saturday's crash, some netizens have asked: Why were the injured not taken to a nearer hospital, like Raffles Hospital, which is just across theroad?
Would it have made a difference?
The New Paper posed the question to the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) yesterday.
We were referred to the answers they had given in 2008 and 2009 regarding practices when an SCDF ambulance is called for.
Then, an MOH spokesman had told TNP that SCDF ambulances take all patients to the nearest MOH-designated A&amp;E hospital.
He added that each hospital here has the expertise for the initial management and resuscitation of all emergency cases.
Public hospitals - the National University Hospital, Changi General Hospital, SGH and TTSH - have 24-hour emergency services and are equipped to manage trauma patients.
Patients can later be transferred to an appropriate hospital for further interventions.
An SCDF spokesman told TNP in 2008 that such transfers occur only after the patient's medical condition has been stabilised at the designated MOHhospital.
Transfers are carried out by the hospital administration and do not involve the SCDF.
In last Saturday's case involving the Ferrari crash, an SCDF spokesman said that it took just eight minutes for the injured to be taken to TTSH.
When asked yesterday how crucial time could be in such incidences of head injuries, Dr Madeleine Chew, resident doctor of MW Medical Centre, said the time difference between sustaining a head injury and a patient's death is difficult to predict.
She added: "When a head injury is sustained, the question is whether a blood clot exists.
"A blood clot would exert pressure on brain tissue and a build-up of pressure would cause brain matter to herniate.
"Such a build-up could be as quick as a blood vessel burst or take up to 48 hours."
