The Singapore International Chamber of Commerce (SICC) is revamping the compo- sition and structure of key industry committees to better support its members in the rapidly changing economic and business environment.
This was revealed by SICC chairman Shanker Iyer at the chamber's 175th Anniversary Gala Dinner held at Marina Bay Sands last night.
Six new cross-industry committees will be added to the existing 12 industry committees. They will aim to facilitate cross-industry sharing of knowledge and foster greater collaboration between members, among other ways of engagement.
One of the new committees - the Manpower and Productivity Committee - will help SICC members review the Government's manpower policies and address challenges such as a tight labour market.
Another committee, the Emerging Markets Committee, will help members gain useful insights into lesser-known markets by providing a platform for them to tap on one another's expertise and experience.
The SICC also plans to discontinue some current committees which it considers to be outdated, while reconfiguring some to "remain relevant to the evolving needs and interests" of its members, said Mr Iyer.
He added that the SICC will also launch "key, targeted programmes that will bring more value to our members", to engage more members not already involved in the committees.
These include a half-yearly insight report, which provides economic indicators and industry-perfor- mance markers, and a "Speaker Series" featuring internationally recognised names and Singapore's leading personalities.
The new initiatives, which will be implemented over the year, will complement initiatives launched earlier this year.
One initiative already launched - the Foreign Diplomat Networking Series - features foreign diplomats invited to talk about doing business in their countries.
Mr Iyer highlighted the SICC's historical role in supporting its members since 1837and said that the chamber's mission remains unchanged.
He added that SICC will continue to be the "voice of the business community" as a dialogue partner of the Government.
