The only thing young about this 28-year-old towkay is his body.
"I feel damn old," he says with a chuckle, when this reporter asks if he is someone with an old soul.
Meet the managing director of the Timbre Group, Mr Edward Chia, who started the company with his partner, Mr Danny Loong.
Timbre, founded seven years ago, posted a revenue of $13 million last year and is expected to rake in $12 million to $14 million this year.
Asked if he has made his first million since starting his business, Mr Chia hemmed and hawed before settling on a non-committal reply: "It's possible."
The brand has several food and beverage outlets which feature live bands, a music school and an artiste management arm under its name.
It also organises large-scale events such as the recently-concluded Beerfest Asia.
It is not surprising that this young entrepreneur has grown up quickly.
"There's responsibility when you have a huge payroll and a company to run.
"Most of my friends are older than me, and I've always got along well with people who are more mature," he says.
Mr Chia's own maturity peeks through in this interview.
Like a seasoned newsmaker, he fields questions articulately in a low, steady tone, while his clasped hands rest on his leg.
While others his age were slogging (or partying) their guts out as undergraduates, Mr Chia, then 21, was putting his energy into his business - Timbre@the Substation.
Keeping up with his studies at the National University of Singapore, where he studied economics and political science, while taking care of the business was a challenge.
Very little time was left to make friends, he says.
"I did feel a little out of place at university because I didn't really have time to socialise," he says.
His last proper break from work was a two-week trip to Turkey two years ago.
In the first five years that he started his business, he did not go on holidays beyond short weekend trips.
It's all worth it, though, he says.
"The dream was always to promote and develop Singapore music, and I've always been a person who enjoyed turning ideas into reality."
At age 11, he used to breed and sell hamsters to a pet shop.
"I don't remember if it was even for a profit, but I sold the hamsters for $3 each.
"I've always been a kid who daydreamed often and had weird ideas. I still daydream a lot," he jokes.
He does not regret starting young.
"You have fewer responsibilities, less opportunity costs and a larger risk appetite," he explains.
He says one of the biggest misconceptions people have about his job is that he only works at night.
"They think that because I run bars which operate mainly at night that I'm very free during the day."
Nothing could be further from the truth, he says.
There are meetings with the landlord to attend, partnerships to discuss and deals to close.
These are bits of the business he thrives on.
The part he doesn't enjoy so much? People management.
"People are the hardest aspect of management, especially when there are issues to settle between staff. It's not productive and it's time-consuming," he explains.
"People think that when you're the boss, you can behave how you want, but actually you are the one who has to adapt most to your staff in order to communicate well with them," he says.
Seven years into the business, he still subscribes to the cliche that every day is a new learning journey.
The next lap for the business involves sustaining what it has already achieved, while exploring overseas expansion, he says.
"We're thinking of expanding to places like Kuala Lumpur, Hong Kong and Sri Lanka.
"But at the same time, I'm concerned about not obsessing only about the top line but growing the margins, and at a pace which the staff can cope with."
AGE: 28
BUSINESS: F&amp;B
entertainment REVENUE: $13m
