Higher levels of vibrations caused by flat patches around train wheels may have contributed to the two major MRT disruptions over two days in December last year.
This was suggested yesterday by Allen &amp; Gledhill lawyer Andrew Yeo, who is representing the Land Transport Authority (LTA) at the Committee of Inquiry (COI) hearing at the Subordinate Courts.
While SMRT's maintenance regime was "generally comprehensive and satisfactory", there were areas which need improvement or a review, he said. He added that maintenance did not match up to ridership growth.
Mr Cavinder Bull, SMRT's lawyer from Drew and Napier, said that SMRT's maintenance regime either meets the manufacturer's recommendations or exceeds them.
"Any defect which may have contributed to increased vibrations did not occur due to a lack of maintenance," said Mr Bull.
He added that a vibration expert whom SMRT consulted found the train operator to have "conducted due diligence" and to be among "the top echelons of metro operations".
The exchanges between the transport authority and operator set the tone for the first day of the six-week hearing to look into causes of the Dec 15 and 17 disruptions on the North-South Line, which affected more than 200,000 commuters.
On both days, trains on the rail line were affected by displaced metal claws that are used to keep the third rail - which supplies electricity to trains - stable.
Mr Yeo said that SMRT's approach in the past was to "simply reinstate" displaced claws.
"There was no system-wide review of the cause of dislodged claws or review of SMRT's maintenance regime in relation to the third-rail support assembly," he said. Mr Bull added that engineering experts SMRT had engaged said its procedure for replacing the displaced claws was "entirely reasonable", given that multiple claw failures had not occurred before.
Instead, he blamed the dislodgement on a "rare confluence of factors" - such as the use of an old first-generation design for the claws. In addition, Singapore-based testing institute TUV SUD reported that there were material defects underlying the cause of the two disruptions, he added.
SMRT admitted that its rail incident-management plan needed to be reviewed to handle disruptions involving multiple trains and stations. It has also decided to replace all its claws with the latest model.
Addressing the court, the Criminal Investigation Department's Assistant Superintendent Roy Lim, the lead investigator for the committee, said that the possibility of a sabotage had been ruled out.
Chief District Judge Tan Siong Thye, who chairs the committee, also identified four areas to be addressed by the various counsel.
Among them, incident-management measures, such as bus bridging services, and possibly changing the third rail's opaque housing to transparent ones for easier inspection.
At least 108 witnesses, including former SMRT chief Saw Phaik Hwa and other senior officers from LTA and SMRT, are expected to be called up during the proceedings.
