SINGAPORE - The Agri-Food &amp; Veterinary Authority of Singapore (AVA) is encouraging households who wish to grow their own vegetables at home to adopt a space-saving method.
Yesterday, it revealed a new do-it-yourself method of cultivating vegetables vertically, using easily acquired materials.
The system, named Veggie Pipe, uses PVC pipes commonly used to carry sewage and water.
The pipes can be bought from hardware stores. They can be stacked together to form a vertical structure, which can be mounted onto walls.
AVA said an advantage of the system is its affordability. A set of 15 pipes, including soil compost, a drip-irrigation system and seedlings from a nursery, costs just over $100.
The authority said it explored the system because of an increasing number of residents who wish to grow vegetables at home.
Ms Poh Bee Ling, assistant director of AVA's Horticulture Technology division, said Veggie Pipe can be installed in a constrained space.
By farming vertically, a smaller area is required. A space that could accommodate only two plants will be able to house seven as a result, she said.
The structure is also easily customised and can be moved to where there is sufficient sunlight, she added.
Growing vegetables is therapeutic and can be a good remedy to busy modern lifestyle, said Mr Lee Yi Shyan, Minister of State for National Development, and Trade and Industry, who viewed the system yesterday at the AVA Horticulture Services Centre, off Sembawang Road.
He said such solutions are important for an urban society such as Singapore, where space is limited.
However the installation of the system needs to fall within HDB regulations. For instance, the Veggie Pipe can be installed in balconies or in community gardens.
Mr Lee also commented on economist and founding chairman of the National Wages Council Lim Chong Yah's radical proposal for a wage revolution here.
Mr Lim's suggestions included a wage freeze for top earners, while raising the incomes for the lowest earners by 15 per cent annually for two years, and by 20 per cent in the third year.
Mr Lee said: "In a free-market system, for it to work well, we have to be very mindful of the interventions we introduce. If you artificially raise it too much...there are consequences."
