To be more specific, I'm talking about the image of a gyrating Han Solo forever seared into the memories of thousands.
Nothing could prepare me last week for the YouTube clips of the roguish smuggler doing his best Justin Bieber impersonation and bobbing to inane lyrics about being free of carbonite. Fans bayed for blood.
And then I told myself: I have to get the game. The silly dancing is so absurd and bizarre, it's actually good.
No, dear Galaxy Far, Far Away geek, this is not some in-game extended romance scene where the pilot of the Millennium Falcon starship tries to hook up with some princess who has buns for hair.
It's the Galactic Dance Off mini-game in Kinect Star Wars, which hit shelves last Thursday.
The mini-game plays out like many motion-sensing dancing titles in stores now: Follow the dance moves of an onscreen computer character as best you can.
But now, that onscreen character happens to be Han Solo.
He sports incredibly smooth and undulating moves you'd expect more of teenyboppers than a suave, leading man. His steps are in sync with oddly familiar and irritatingly catchy but completely baffling pop tunes.
There's I'm Han Solo, a parody of American singer Jason Derulo's 2010 single Ridin' Solo. If you're familiar with the source material - both the Star Wars movies and the song - the lyrics are absolutely hilarious.
Take, for instance, this line: I'm so happy the carbonite is gone/I'm movin' on/I'm so happy that it's over now/The pain is gone.
Or the chorus: I'm picking up my blaster/put it on my side/I'm jumpin' in my Falcon/Wookiee at my side/I'm solo, I'm Han Solo/I'm Han Solo/I'm Han Solo, Solo.
And while you're trying hard to contain your horror, you have to mimic ridiculous moves, including the Double Blaster and the Trash Compactor.
Just as cringe-inducing, smuggler Lando Calrissian takes over midway through the song and does the Chewie Hug.
You end the "audio file" with the Solo Pose and a Death Star disco ball in the background, complete with green super laser, exploding into glitter.
It's little wonder that an online clip on the song has registered over 800,000 views, nearly 3,000 likes and 5,000 dislikes as of yesterday afternoon.
But that's not all: Solo prances to other numbers. This includes the disco-themed Kashyyyk (the homeworld of a furry alien race called the Wookiees), a rip-off of British band Jamiroquai's 1999 Canned Heat.
And it's not an easy song to dance to as the moves come fast and furious, such as the Saturday Night Fever-inspired Lando Fever. But it's strangely enjoyable. And if you thought that was it, sorely mistaken you are, my young Padawan.
Galactic Dance Off has 15 songs. You can unlock some of the more hectic instrumental numbers and advanced routines only by getting high scores for moving to the beat.
This also means more fan-favourites shaking their booty. There's Princess Leia in her famous metal bra swaying her hips to Princess In A Battle (a Genie In A Bottle parody). The song purrs about lonely nights and how Solo has to join the "Rebel way" to be with a princess.
You can also huddle with the Evil Empire by tapping your toes together with stormtroopers and bounty hunter Boba Fett in the YMCA sound-alike, Empire Today.
Score enough points and you can even unlock the Death Star stage where a dark figure with breathing difficulties and a senior citizen who wields lightning show how even the prosthetic-laden and wizened have a few slick moves up their sleeves.
So, as much as the nearly three-hour main game of light-sabre action in Kinect Star Wars delights (and frustrates), and a pod-racing mini-game shines, nothing can quite bring a smile across my face than the campiness of going Solo.
