A statement yesterday said that maids are allowed to do so only if they are physically supervised by their employer or by an adult representative of their employer.
Window grilles, which need to be installed, should also be locked at all times during the cleaning process.
The new rules apply to all homes, except for windows that are at the ground level or along common corridors.
These come after nine maids fell to their deaths this year, compared to four cases for the whole of last year. Eight maids fell to their deaths in 2010.
MOM investigations showed that five of the nine deaths this year were related to maids cleaning windows in an unsafe manner. Two arose from hanging laundry, while the causes of the last two are pending further investigation.
On Sunday morning, a 29-year-old Indonesian maid fell from her employer's 12th- floor flat in Woodlands Drive 44, but she was grabbed by neighbours one floor below.
Singapore Civil Defence Force officers set up an inflatable safety cushion and later pulled the maid to safety. She was sent to Khoo Teck Puat Hospital with stomach and neck pains.
MOM said it engaged a variety of stakeholders to hear different perspectives on the issue and invited them to co-develop effective solutions.
These views came from members of the public, comments on online forums, and e-mail messages to MOM, among others.
A door-to-door survey was also conducted among some 600 households to better understand window cleaning practices. In-depth, one-to-one interviews with maids as well as a townhall session with employers, members of the public, employment agencies and non-governmental organisations were also held, said MOM.
Most stakeholders called for the Government to impose the new rules as there was "less support for a ban on window-cleaning regardless of precautions taken". This is because there are safe ways to clean window exteriors, such as through locked grilles and with the use of extendable wipers. The survey also showed that most households, including those without maids, cleaned their window exteriors fairly frequently. Among those who did, most had window grilles.
Circulars will be sent to all maid employers to notify them of the tightened safety requirements. Employers who fail to comply may be prosecuted and barred permanently from hiring a maid, said MOM. MOM also plans to raise the penalty for employers prosecuted for failing to provide their maids with a safe working environment.
The ministry said it intends to double the penalties from the current S$5,000 fine and/or six months' jail to S$10,000 fine and/or 12 months' jail.
"This is part of the ongoing review of the Employment of Foreign Manpower Act and its subsidiary legislation," said the spokesman.
sujint@sph.com.sg
