Since voting closed at 8pm on Saturday, Workers' Party (WP) supporters took over the coffeeshop at Block 322 Hougang Avenue 5 shouting "Huat Ah", - which has been the battle cry for WP candidate Png Eng Huat - playing drums and blowing trumpets, ordering Tiger beer by the bucketloads, and leaving only standing space in the coffeeshop with over 600 people in the crowd.
Making the most of the opportunity, enterprising businesses set up shop around the supporters with one muah chee stall and one selling brightly-lit toys.
As Returning Officer Yam Ah Mee announced the victory for WP, more crowds thronged the street of Hougang Avenue 5, celebrating Mr Png's win, with everyone in a festive mood.
At the WP headquarters, there were about 30 reporters present in the modest 300-square-foot space that is on the same floor as a Chinese workers' dormitory.
WP's members of parliament (MPs) from Aljunied GRC including WP General Secretary Low Thian Kiang and WP Vice-chair Pritam Singh together with winning candidate Mr Png spoke to the press expressing their happiness.
Mr Png showed his nervousness before he began the press conference, having to start his speech twice and stuttering when he talked.
Mr Low said Hougang residents will get a chance to know Mr Png better over the next few years.
He said the results are wonderful but he did not want to speculate on reasons for the two per cent gain in votes for PAP.
Mr Low add he was disappointed with PAP's "character assassination" and personal attacks saying he thought this by-election similar to a situation he experienced in the eighties and nineties.
"We value every vote. I'm sure Png Eng Huat will work hard. In any case, it is a very good result, given the circumstances," said Mr Low.
He also emphasised that the first thing Mr Png will do is work.
As big crowds gathered at Hougang Avenue 5, Mr Png arrived at the coffeeshop at Blk 322 to greet his supporters around 12.20am.
Around 12.30am, Mr Png took his leave and drove away with supporters following behind waving him off.
WP has won the Hougang by-election with 13,447 out of a total of 21,657 votes.
Mr Png, 50, chairman of the Hougang Constituency Committee, beat the People Action Party's (PAP) Desmond Choo, 34.
Mr Png obtained 62.09 per cent of the eligible votes cast.
