Research into remotely controlled military systems and cybersecurity will soon be undertaken at the newly established Singapore University of Technology and Design (SUTD).
These are among the research areas to be pursued at two defence-related facilities - Temasek Laboratories and iTrust - to be housed at Singapore's fourth university.
The facilities, to be set up with the Ministry of Defence (Mindef), are aimed at enhancing defence research and development in Singapore.
This was announced by President Tony Tan Keng Yam yesterday, during the university's inauguration ceremony at its Dover campus. He is the university's chancellor.
SUTD's Temasek Laboratories, which will be operational this month, is the third such facility.
The other two Temasek Laboratories are at the National University of Singapore and the Nanyang Technological University.
The SUTD facility will focus on the development and design of Singapore's defence systems, such as remotely controlled military systems, information systems and engineering systems.
SUTD's iTrust will focus on cybersecurity, including the development of trustworthy information- communication systems. It will open by the end of the year.
The centre will conduct research into, among other things, the security of info-communication infrastructure, to ensure the safe creation, access and storage of information.
In his speech, Dr Tan said that the facilities will also provide "opportunities for undergraduates to undertake leadingedge research under the mentorship of SUTD faculty, while working on real-world problems related to the defence and security of our nation".
Students will get opportunities to use the research facilities when they take on the university's Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme.
Yesterday, the pioneer batch of 340 SUTD undergraduates recited the university's creed to kick off the school semester.
Classes start today, and a bachelor's degree course at the university will stretch over a period of 31/2 years.
Ms Sharlene Wong, 20, student- council president at SUTD, said a long-awaited journey begins today - she took a gap year just to enter the university.
"I am excited to start, and hope to eventually invent a product that will help people."
samboh@sph.com.sg
