SINGAPORE - The Government will always look after the less fortunate and leave no one behind.
That is the promise Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong gave Singaporeans while addressing his audience at the Chinese Development Assistance Council's (CDAC's) 20th Anniversary Dinner last evening.
He said that the Government is doing its utmost for low-income families through GST vouchers, Workfare, Special Employment Credit and the Inclusive Growth Programme.
He said: "Our objective is to preserve social mobility for all Singaporeans, so that children can aspire to do better than their parents.
"And especially to do this through education, by making sure that every school is a good school and every child receives a good education."
Mr Lee, who is the patron of CDAC, was the guest of honour at the event held at the CDAC auditorium in Tanjong Katong Road to celebrate the founding of the Chinese community's self-help group.
The dinner was attended by about 120 guests, comprising CDAC board members, committee members, volunteers, partners, beneficiaries and donors.
CDAC was founded in 1992 to help less-fortunate Chinese families and academically weaker students.
CDAC and other self-help groups, such as Mendaki, Sinda and the Eurasian Association, have all been successful because they understand the "unique circumstances and concerns of the respective communities", said Mr Lee.
"They can address issues candidly, without raising racial or religious sensitivities, and they can rally members of the community to help one another out, whether as volunteers or as donors," he said.
Mr Lee also stressed the importance of community efforts. He said: "How we fare as a nation depends on how Singaporeans respond to our challenges, individually and as a community."
He cited many positive examples of this, such as efforts by voluntary welfare organisations.
"Self-help groups will continue to play very important roles, especially in helping families and improving social mobility," said Mr Lee.
CDAC, he said, used to restrict help to only "double poor" students - those with poor school results who come from poor families - but "not any more".
He said: "Now the CDAC helps students from low-income households, regardless of their results. Those (who are) not doing well, help them to improve and pass (exams). Those who are doing well, help them to excel and achieve their potential."
He said that CDAC is extending its education programmes to students in junior colleges, Institute of Technical Education, polytechnics, arts schools and students who are not in the mainstream education system.
But Mr Lee said that individuals too must make the effort to help themselves.
He said: "If they need help, ask for help. There is always a helping hand stretched out. Take advantage of the programmes to upgrade yourself.
"When you get back on your feet, help others get back on their feet."
