The National Trades Union Congress (NTUC) has set wage targets for workers in the cleaning sector.
Those who clean hawker centres and public places should be paid $1,000, while town council cleaners who now earn $1,000 should be paid $1,200.
Cleaners who operate machinery should get up to $1,500 each month.
These &ldquo;progressive wage&rdquo; targets for cleaners were announced by labour chief Lim Swee Say in a cleaning industry briefing, reported The Straits Times.
Mr Lim said: &ldquo;Our philosophy, our belief is that every job can be improved in terms of skills... productivity... outcomes... wages.&rdquo;
This &ldquo;progressive wage&rdquo; approach is better than setting a minimum wage by law, because unions and companies can hit a gridlock over what the minimum wage should be, said Mr Lim.
The labour chief described minimum wages as &ldquo;sticky wages&rdquo;, and is concerned if employers choose to keep minimum wage down to remain competitive.
There are 69,000 cleaners in Singapore. Most of them earn below $1,000.
The NTUC hopes to see 10,000 cleaners reach these wage targets by 2015, as part of its Inclusive Growth Programme to boost the pay of low-wage workers. It wants to reach out to 100,000 low-wage workers by 2015.
It is also prepared to subsidise up to half of the cost of cleaning equipment, so that companies can buy it and train workers to use it.
The condition it set for companies is that the productivity gains should be passed on to workers in the form of higher pay.
These targets could be met when workers go for skills upgrading and productivity improvements.
The wages of low-income earners came into focus earlier this year after veteran economist Lim Chong Yah suggested that the pay of such workers be raised by 50 per cent over the next three years, during which the pay of high-income earners would be frozen.
His argument that this move would narrow the income gap and force firms to raise productivity was assailed by those who argued essentially that it would mean putting the wage cart before the productivity horse.
