As Singapore's tourism industry continues to grow by leaps and bounds, its contribution to the country's GDP could double to as much as 8 per cent from some 4 per cent in 2011, Singapore Tourism Board (STB) chief Aw Kah Peng said in an exclusive interview with BT.
What's more, STB hopes to get there by targeting quality tourism and quality visitors - rather than going "after all and sundry" - given Singapore's constraints in land, infrastructure and manpower.
STB has been conducting consumer insight research to establish which travellers it should be targeting and to better understand their decision-making process.
"With (destination marketing), you cannot be sure if you're really reaching the correct segment. We will still do some of that, particularly in newer markets, but that on its own can never be enough," Ms Aw highlighted.
"We've got to figure out who are the right kinds of visitors - visitors that Singapore can effectively compete for. Where do we have a right to win? We can't assume Singapore can be everything to everybody."
The notion of quality visitors also signals a shift to concentrating on boosting foreign spend, rather than just visitor arrivals, as a means to grow the tourism pie.
The pie itself is growing and could soon account for a much larger share of Singapore's GDP.
"There has to be a certain critical size. How do you compete for resources? My gut feel is that 5-8 per cent is not a bad number in terms of critical scale," she reckons. "If you look at all the industries, if (a number is) too small, it's difficult. If it's too large, the question is: why is it so large, and can you really sustain it?"
The industry has gathered pace. In 2011, it accounted for 4.1 per cent of GDP, up sharply from 3.6 per cent in 2010 and 2.4 per cent in 2009.
"We will still have our projections, our annual plans, and, of course, the world will still change," said Ms Aw, who was appointed chief executive in January 2009. "(But) we look at this as greater clarity in terms of how we will get to the end point and what the end point will be. The end point cannot be just two numbers. It puts perspective behind the numbers."
Ultimately, the end point is about "creating a competitive, vibrant industry where you have top-class players . . . who understand which segments we can compete well in and how to keep drawing (visitors) in," she pointed out.
In late 2009, STB began engaging stakeholders from the tourism industry to tackle questions such as how to grow in a sustainable way, how to compete well and how to establish which visitors were the right kinds for Singapore.
The results are showing. In March, STB projected that Singapore will attract some 13.5-14.5 million visitors and chalk up $23-24 billion in tourism receipts this year. These are figures that some in the industry have noted are on the conservative side - a point Ms Aw readily acknowledges.
The projections represent a year-on-year increase of about 3.5-8 per cent in tourism receipts and around 2-10 per cent in visitor arrivals compared with 2011.
In comparison, Singapore attracted 13.2 million tourists in 2011, up 13 per cent from 2010, and $22.2 billion in receipts - an increase of 17 per cent year-on-year.
Meanwhile, the number of conventions, conferences and trade shows grew 46 per cent to 2,130 events in 2011, while tourism receipts generated from the MICE industry rose 10 per cent to $550 million.
"When we did our numbers in January, we were a bit more cautious. (But) in the first two months, we've seen double-digit (growth) in arrivals. I'm hoping we can be more optimistic by the middle of the year," Ms Aw added.
She also doesn't rule out a revision of the 2012 forecast if that cautiousness proves unfounded.
But even as the industry rakes in the big bucks, this begs the question whether the nation might be pricing itself out of the market compared to the rest of Asia - when even budget hotels here were averaging $109 a night in 2011.
Some in the MICE sector have also raised the concern that pricey hotel rooms may force event organisers to look elsewhere.
"In the end, I think it comes down to: are we delivering sufficiently at that price point? The market is working, and it should work. Yes, we have to be very careful, and the minute people stop turning up because they think we're truly not delivering value - we have to watch that."
2011 proved to be boom-time for hoteliers as gazetted hotel room revenue worked out to $2.6 billion, rising 27.8 per cent year-on-year, according to preliminary estimates.
Average room rate (ARR) gained 13 per cent to hit $245 while the average occupancy rate (AOR) came in at a solid 86 per cent, boosting revenue per available room (RevPAR) 15 per cent year-on-year to $212.
But even at current room rates, there is still further room for growth in the short term, Ms Aw reckons, given that there is a shortage of supply in the market.
10,000 rooms have come onstream between 2008 and 2011 - "a lot of rooms, as far as I'm concerned" - and nearly 4,000 more are expected to be launched in 2012. The total number of rooms here at end-2011 was 49,719.
However, "a good part of (room supply) doesn't come in till the second half - which is why, in the first half, you may still see a bit of a push on prices," she said.
According to a recent study, CBRE Hotels has projected that average room rates will increase a further 5-10 per cent this year over last year while average occupancy islandwide will come in at 83-86 per cent.
"The demand for hotels continues to grow as Singapore offers a more diverse set of attractions and an increase in supply.
Occupancy is likely to be maintained at a level which will enable operators to increase room rates," said STB's executive director Robert McIntosh.
Even with the rosy outlook though, the tourism industry still faces challenges, especially when it comes to hiring and retaining talent. This is exacerbated by a confluence of factors such as stiff competition for staff, a low unemployment rate, tightening restrictions on foreign workers as well as the general push for greater productivity in the workforce.
"Nine out of 10 times when we go out there and talk to our industry, regardless of which sector, the first thing they say is (an issue is) people," Ms Aw said. "That's not going to go away so soon."
