Good fortune comes in all sizes and shapes this Akshaya Tritiya. The festival, which falls on April 24 this year, is celebrated by Hindus - especially those hailing from south India - who believe it is an auspicious time to buy gold.
While gold jewellery is still the mainstay of purchases made on Akshaya Tritiya - it means never diminishing in Sanskrit - some jewellers in Little India told tabla! that they have noticed an increase in the number of requests from Indian buyers for gold bars, or biscuits as they are known, and gold coins.
The belief is that these items cater to the fortune factor... and provide a certain amount of quick liquidity when required. The jewellers estimate there is a 50 per cent rise in such requests compared to last year.
Appollo Sellappas' managing director C. Sankar told tabla! that many of his customers are looking to these solid gold pieces as investments: "People are buying them to keep as an investment for their children as gold is stable."
Experts believe that buying physical gold is a good idea as buyers are spared the costs of workmanship that come with gold jewellery, and it is always in 24 karat quality.
To cater for this rising interest in gold biscuits and coins, Indian Jewellers - one of the many jewellery shops along Serangoon Road which has just welcomed its latest addition, Joyallukas, which opened on April 19 - has come up with a special Akshaya Tritiya gold coin with images of the Hindu goddess of wealth Lakshmi and the elephant-headed god Ganesh.
Mr Sankar added that customers opt for gold bars and coins when they are unsure of what to buy during Akshaya Tritiya - especially the older generation whose children are not particularly into the yellow metal and traditional designs. "Most of them might later melt it down and make a customised piece of jewellery for themselves," he said.
A spokesperson for Meena Gold Jewellers noted that people who buy these bars and coins during Akshaya Tritiya tend to be men as women prefer buy jewellery. She said: "While some women do buy the coins, I think they prefer to wear the gold rather than just keep it in safe or in the bank where no one can see it."
Whether it is jewellery, gold bars or gold coins, the buying is on this Akshaya Tritiya.
