SINGAPORE - There are no short cuts to success. While I believe that success is up to the individual, in my case, I started as an ordinary boy and built myself up through sheer hard work.
I've had friends who worked all their lives, enjoyed themselves but they neglected their upgrading and when time passed, they remained where they were with their education and qualifications.
They lost out in the marketplace.
Had they only paralleled enjoyment with a bit of suffering to upgrade themselves constantly trying to remain relevant they would have maintained their way of life and their happiness.
They didn't have to suffer in their later years.
I subscribe to five factors to creating success:
Hard work. Nothing can substitute that.
Sincerity. It pays dividends in the long term, but in the short term, people may misunderstand you.
When you make decisions, it has to be objective, a sincere view of the issues that is not tainted by bias or prejudice, shrouded by a personal agenda or personalities.
Integrity. When you say you do something in business, do it. If you cannot honour your initial promises with people, tell them. People are prepared to deal with you if you have integrity.
Courage. There comes a time in your life when opportunities arise. Many times people may not want to grab these opportunities for various reasons.
Like here in MDIS (Management Development Institute of Singapore), when we ask for volunteers, people who volunteer straightaway tend to eventually deliver and show us their potential.
If they had not taken the opportunity, they would not have stood out in the crowd.
When I was invited to join the MDIS council in the 1990s, I was already a businessman, making my success.
At that time MDIS was a small institution with a $60,000 loss and there were two groups of people who wanted two different strategies for the Institute.
One group wanted to go forward with management training and the other wanted to remain where they were and fulfil the original charter of just doing supervisory management courses.
When I was asked to join, I requested that I be allowed to be the driving force. I cannot have a stagnant situation.
I must always be creating, innovating and pushing forward. I developed a reputation for doing that.
But I didn't want to be president, instead I became the secretary-general.
At the time, there were only six staff members here in MDIS. Today we have about 360 to 370 employees and we are creating at least 30 more vacancies.
We are also building a campus in Malaysia and we have a campus in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, a collaboration with the Uzbekistan government, which we set up in 2008.
There were reservations at first about Tashkent. The council thought it was not a wise idea. We did our sums, the ministers flew in here and negotiated with us.
I thought it was safe because our investment and dividends were guaranteed. We only had to look after the quality of the education and the brand name.
Now we have 1,500 students in the Tashkent campus and that will grow to 2,500. In Malaysia, we also hope to go in with a big bang.
In the education business or in any kind of business, you must be daring. Come hell or high water, once I have done all my sums, I will drive the idea with a passion.
For instance, we recently opened up a fashion and design programme at MDIS. I want to see success in that programme.
And finally the mysterious hand.
Many people call it luck but I call it the mysterious force, which is parental blessings, divine intervention or some unexplainable force, that connects you to the right place at the right time.
Entrepreneurs are driven by passion that can either be ingrained or developed over time. That is why I see myself as an ordinary boy doing extraordinary things.
