SINGAPORE - Police have contacted five people connected to the spreading of unsubstantiated information, either online or via text messages, about children being kidnapped.
The police also clarified at a media conference yesterday that seven police reports made between March 19 and last Saturday were unrelated to each other.
They said the cases did not involve actual abductions, and there was no evidence to suggest any criminal intent.
The police added that, under the Telecommunications Act, it is an offence to send false messages through text messages and online channels such as Facebook.
If there is intent to create fear and alarm, sending these messages may also be an offence under the Penal Code. Offenders may be jailed for up to three years, fined, or both.
However, the police did not confirm if the five people they contacted had violated any laws.
Ms Ng Guat Ting, director of the police public-affairs department, pointed out that some people may have shared information about the alleged kidnappings out of goodwill.
She added that reports of kidnappings "are taken very seriously by the police" and "no efforts are spared" in such investigations.
But Ms Ng also stressed that the public should dial 999 only in an emergency, such as when they witness a child being abducted.
In instances where the public hear of kidnapping rumours and are alarmed, they should call the 24-hour police hotline, 1800-255-0000.
Those who have leads or believe that the rumours are valid can also call the hotline instead of posting them online.
This is to prevent the situation from being blown out of proportion on the Internet.
"The police should be the ones alerting members of the public," said Ms Ng.
Still, she encouraged the public to share tips for avoiding crime.
Ms Ng added that, besides the alleged kidnapping reports the police received, fake kidnapping stories have also been making the rounds online.
She said the hoaxes slow down and hinder police investigations into true reports and offences.
The hoaxes also "generate unnecessary public alarm, causing fear and panic in the community", she added.
The police advised the public to be alert to scammers who might capitalise on the public's fear and try to cheat people by posing as kidnappers.
While figures were not available, the police said the number of phone-scam cases is growing. However, there has been no spike recently.
Kidnapping is a very serious crime, and convicted kidnappers face a life sentence or even the death penalty.
Housewife Corinne Tong, 44, who has a six-year-old son, was relieved that the recent fears over child-kidnapping were unfounded.
Still, she said that when she is in a public place, "I will make sure that (my son) is never out of my sight".
