SINGAPORE - 'Huat ah!' 'Yam.......Seng!' These were the calls that resounded throughout the usually quiet neighbourhood of Hougang Ave 5. Beginning at 7pm, a throng of supporters poured into the coffeeshop at Block 322.
These supporters came prepared. Their arms consisted of placards, flags, and even a giant hammer. At one point in time, one supporter showed up with a enormous drum and a trumpet.
From eight at night till one in the morning, these supporters kept up a never-ending chorus of chants and cheers. Whenever a PAP candidate appeared on the TV, they would block the screen with a giant placard that read 'Huat ah!', and drown out the TV with their own jeers.
Mr Lan, an Hougang resident in his 60s, has been an ardent Workers' Party (WP) supporter for many years.
According to him, the gathering at Block 322 was no surprise. He told AsiaOne in hokkien: "Although I wasn't the one who organised this, this happens every year. That coffeeshop is the traditional gathering ground for Workers' Party supporters in Hougang in every election."
Since the Workers' Party had not applied for a gathering permit, this quiet neighbourhood became the de facto gathering point for Workers' Party supporters from all over Singapore.
The police were already in position but told AsiaOne that their orders were only to wait and observe.
By 8pm, the coffeeshop was filled to capacity and the crowd spilled over on to the grass and to the Chinese medicinal store next door. An estimated 3,000 people were in attendance.
Some Singaporeans even used the situation to exhibit their entrepreneurial spirit.
A store selling muah chee and chilled drinks sprung up by the roadside outside the coffeeshop, where the crowd made it nearly impossible to order drinks anyway. A local resident confirmed that this store was not a regular fixture in the neighbourhood.
The owner of the store, who declined to be named, explained that she heard about the gathering on the evening news, and immediately came to set up shop.
She said: "I usually follow Getai performances around, but when an opportunity like this came about , I would definitely grab it. And business is good."
In contrast to the subdued atmosphere at the PAP end, there was never a moment of doubt in the Workers' Party camp that they would not emerge victorious. In fact, the results shocked many WP supporters, who had expected a 40-60 split in the votes.
When the results were announced, the WP supporters were jubilant. For the next 15 minutes straight, they cheered, chanted, and toasted to Mr Png's victory, deafening all in earshot.
A few even hung a giant banner at the HDB block across from the coffeeshop, eliciting even more cheers from the crowd. The supporters then lined up on both sides of the road, patiently waiting for the newly-elected MP to arrive.
For over two hours, the supporters kept up their vigil by the side of the road, punctuating the night with their cheers. Many vehicles that drove past honked their horn in tune to the cheers, making the scene seem like a giant party.
At around 12.30am, Mr Png and his entourage arrived from the back of the coffeeshop, slowly making their way through the crowd for a victory lap.
For those in attendance, it was not a night they would easily forget.
A group of friends told AsiaOne: "We had just finished dinner and decided to come here after reading about it on Twitter."
Echoing the sentiments of everyone present, they said: "Although we are from all over Singapore - Bedok, Woodlands, Tiong Bahru, we wanted to come here and show our support for the Workers' Party."
