SINGAPORE - The police have contacted five people for posting unsubstantiated information via the internet and SMS on children being abducted and kidnapped.
The police said they are assisting with investigations regarding online reports about alleged child kidnapping attempts in Singapore.
Seven police reports had been filed in the last two weeks of March, but after police investigation, it was established that none are related cases.
According to a media statement, there is no evidence to suggest criminal intent behind any of these encounters.
The police emphasised that there has also been no reported case in which a child was actually abducted or kidnapped.
Ms Ng Guat Ting, Director of the Public Affairs Department of the Singapore Police Force said: 'We will like to reiterate that all reports of abduction and kidnapping are taken very seriously by the Police. No efforts are spared in such investigations. Parents, guardians or care givers of young children should call 999 or make a police report for police to take immediate action.'
She said that while sharing tips on how to avoid becoming a victim of crime is strongly encouraged, circulating false information is not only irresponsible, but is also an offence.
Ms Ng said doing so will not only hinder and slow down police investigations, but may also cause unnecessary public alarm, causing fear and panic in the community.
'Therefore, non-victims but concerned members of the public who have information are to call the Police hotline at 1800 255-0000 if they have information to provide. They can also call 999 if urgent police assistance is needed,' she concluded.
Persons found guilty of transmitting false messages may be charged under Section 45 of the Telecommunications Act. If this is done with intent to create cause fear and alarm, or to incite offences against a class or community of persons, it may also be an offence under Section 505 of the Penal Code. Offenders may be punished with imprisonment for up to 3 years, fined or both.
