Rubbish is serious business, especially in land-scarce Singapore, whose only landfill site is found on the offshore island of Pulau Semakau.
The use of Pulau Semakau as a landfill site is split into two phases and, yesterday, it was revealed that the 350ha site will reach its full capacity for Phase One by 2015.
But this figure is on track, according to an estimate by the National Environment Agency (NEA).
The NEA plans to utilise the island as a waste-disposal ground until 2045 and beyond.
Phase One - which got its start in 1999 - will utilise over 170ha, with a landfill volume of 11.4 million cu m.
Phase Two is still in its "planning and design stage", said Mr Ong Chong Peng, general manager of Semakau Landfill.
He added that "there has been a steady increase in waste coming to Semakau in the past three years".
He attributes this rise to a variety of factors, from Singapore's population and economic growth, to the arrival of the two integrated resorts.
One way to ensure Semakau's longevity and to help reduce the amount of waste - which consists mainly of incinerated ash from Singapore - going to Semakau is to recycle, said an NEA spokesman.
Singaporeans currently recycle only 59 per cent of their waste, the spokesman added. NEA's target is for the recycle rate to reach 65 per cent by 2020, and 70 per cent by 2030.
The update on Semakau's status was revealed yesterday, when marine ecologist Zeb Hogan visited the island.
Besides acting as a landfill, Semakau is a wildlife haven that is rich in mangroves and coral reefs.
Dr Hogan - who hosts National Geographic's Monster Fish programme - led a group of 40 nature lovers on a tour of Semakau, as part of a collaboration between the television channel and the NEA. While there, he commented on Semakau's marine diversity.
"The anemones, sponges, crabs and some of the fish here are different from what I've seen in other places. What's here is unique," said Dr Hogan, who is an assistant research professor at the University of Nevada in Reno.
He had never visited Semakau, whose landfill was created using a 7km-perimeter rock bund built to enclose a part of the sea off Pulau Semakau and Pulau Sakeng.
The bund is lined with an impermeable membrane and a layer of marine clay, to ensure that the waste is contained within the landfill.
"Semakau is right in the middle of a busy area, (with) lots of boat traffic... It's surprising that (the marine life) is so intact and so healthy," Dr Hogan said after his visit.
