SINGAPORE - Singapore designers received huge support at this year's Audi Fashion Festival (AFF), which saw fashion mayhem and after-parties over five days at the Tent@Orchard.
Almost 12,000 fashion fanatics filled the white tent outside Ngee Ann City every night across 15 shows from last Wednesday to Sunday, playing dress-up at international-designer showcases and filling the 800-seating tent to an average of 75 per cent at every show.
The big names that drew the socialite and fashion-elite crowds were opening show Mugler, Zac Posen and closing show Roland Mouret.
As a fashion appreciator but being more of a party person, the Tiffany &amp; Co and Swarovski shows stood out for me.
Tiffany had Singapore Dance Theatre ballet dancers as models for its jewellery, creating a graceful show, while Swarovski went rock chic with models in the biggest bling sashaying down the catwalk to the music by a live rock band that featured local, Los Angeles-based singer Vanessa Fernandez.
Most show-goers loved the international designers, with some saying Posen's gowns brought tears to their eyes, giving him a standing ovation, but, honestly, I didn't get it.
They were definitely works of art, but weren't my cup of tea, and the models showed that the gowns were meant to be looked at and not walked in.
Mugler gave a gorgeous but disappointingly short show of no more than five minutes, with Mouret being the only one who gave a substantial-length show.
Despite the designers showcasing their already-seen worldwide Autumn/Winter collections, their shows provided an excuse for attendees to dress up.
Ms Tjin Lee, organiser of the Audi Fashion Festival, explained the international factor: "International designers bring their own brand of glamour (and) red-carpet excitement, and it gets the region abuzz."
She pointed out that the region already sees so many fashion weeks that what makes Singapore's stand out is "the fact that we are a city which is able to attract the very top names, curate them and bring them here".
"You can see a Mugler show in all its Paris glory or see Zac Posen's gowns up close. There's no other city in Asia that brings the best of those international world-class collections together with Asian highlights," she added.
And, together with Blueprint, which celebrates new and emerging designers, new talent got to relish in the awe of the international designers' presence, as well as learn from their established counterparts.
Local well-established labels, Raoul and alldressedup, have repeatedly shown their collections at various AFFs which give inspiration to and spark innovation among new talents, as well as draw their own clientele that fill up the venue.
Ms Lee pointed out that some local designers are still not well-equipped or established enough to draw a crowd.
However, that - and having a local label be the main component of the show - are dreams worth striving for.
"That's always been my dream. And, one day, I think we'll be ready for a Singapore designer to open or close (the festival), and that's what we're working towards."
For the local talents that needed a little boost to pull in the crowds, they combined forces to put up their showcases.
The Singapore Designer Showcase at AFF featured three designers, Parco next Next had eight, and the three Singapore designers in one segment of Future Fashion Now (FFN) all commanded a full house during the weekend.
The only complaints were the long lines to get into, and the long waits before, shows - the wait to Parco next Next's 40-minute show was over 11/2 hours.
I didn't mind the fashionably late starts as the Belvedere and Rosemount lounges had enough refreshments and plenty of people to talk to.
For those who could not make it to the shows, FFN was a first at this year's AFF for allowing fashion fans to watch some shows live over the Internet, especially shows by emerging designers, and put in an order for the clothes as they saw the models walk down the runway in them.
Ms Lee estimated that there were 100,000 online viewers and urged everyone to "support and vote with your dollar".
"The only way to support these guys is to spend," said Ms Lee, who considered FFN as the highlight for her this year.
Overall, the support for emerging and, especially, local talent and the AFF event itself is laudable.
Even the after-parties held at Red Dot Museum, Loof and Pangaea were well-attended in great spirit, even on a school night.
With the growth of Blueprint and more emphasis on local and regional talent, perhaps one day soon, Singapore will be looked at as the star of Asia for fashion talent and fashion events.
myp@sph.com.sg
