Minister of State for Manpower Mr Tan Chuan-Jin said Monday that a comprehensive and active strategy was needed to help low-income families improve their quality of life in Singapore and have a share in Singapore's progress.
Responding to questions posed during Monday's parliament sitting on low-income workers and the wage-shock therapy proposed earlier this year by former National Wages Council chairman Professor Lim Chong Yah, he said jobs alone was not the solution to help low-income families.
The Government has enhanced housing grants and subsidies to help lower-income families own homes; and this has enabled many residents to own their own flats or rent at below-market rentals, he said.
There have also been initiatives to expand education subsidies and programmes, as well as affordable healthcare, to aid these low-income families. On top of these initiatives, this year's Budget has also included major initiatives to help low-income families.
Mr Tan also said that wages at the lower end have picked up significantly over the past five years for most lower-wage workers, growing by 11.5 per cent from 2006 to last year for Singaporean workers at the 20th percentile, after adjusting for inflation.
Household income per member also grew by 13.6 per cent in real terms in the last five years for Singaporean households at the 20th percentile.
In fact, those in the bottom 20 per cent saw the highest percentage growth in income per member.
Mr Tan said this showed that there was a rise in individual wages in the last five years, as well as more members of the household finding employment in an economy which has created many new jobs.
Such an increase in incomes also came on top of an increase in the proportion of foreign workers in the workforce.
However, there are still some Singaporeans in specific low-wage occupations which have not experienced improvements in incomes, such as office cleaners.
Mr Tan outlined three ways to raise the incomes for these groups of workers.
He said Singapore needs to ensure that it can recover quickly each time the economy takes a dip as this affects the incomes of low-wage workers badly.
Singapore also needs to invest in and improve the productivity, innovation and skills of companies and workers continuously so that incomes can increase significantly and on a sustained basis.
Lastly, lower-wage workers must particularly benefit from growth.
Mr Tan said other than broad-based approaches to improve productivity, skills and incomes, there should also be targeted approaches to address issues specific to certain sectors.
The Government will work with business-owners, unions and workers to ensure that Singaporeans, especially lower-wage workers, can look forward to better jobs and higher incomes.
