SINGAPORE - Singapore is the top place where youth here want to live, while joblessness and economic downturns are their top concerns, said Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean yesterday.
Mr Teo said a third of youth polled through Facebook two weeks ago picked Singapore as their preferred place to live.
More picked the country over places such as New York, London, Japan and Shanghai.
The poll involved over 500 students who attended the Pre-University Seminar at the Nanyang Technological University, where Mr Teo was speaking.
On issues they were most concerned about, the majority - or 53 per cent - said unemployment and economic recessions were top on their minds.
The No. 2 concern was Singapore's ageing and shrinking population.
These findings were revealed following an SMS poll Mr Teo conducted during the seminar.
Mr Teo, who is also Coordinating Minister for National Security and Minister for Home Affairs, said he was glad that the students' concerns coincided with those of the Government.
He noted that Singapore faces a "big dilemma": the issue of having an education system that produces "world-ready" and "world-mobile" citizens able to settle anywhere around the world, but who may be less attached to Singapore.
He assured students that the Government would try to make Singapore a vibrant and attractive place to live in, not just in terms of economics.
"It's also the many things that will tug at our heartstrings - family, friends, familiar places and the food," he explained.
Mr Teo was also confident that Singapore can continue to be one of the most liveable cities in the world, due to its advantages over other cities.
For instance, Singapore can regulate the flow of people coming in, which Mumbai and Shanghai may find difficult to do due to their vast hinterland.
In another quick poll yesterday to gauge the students' optimism in their future, their future in Singapore, and Singapore's future, the majority said they were optimistic, while some had reservations.
Mr Teo was cheered by the response, which indicated that the students "don't have blind optimism", but recognise the presence of challenges.
In the question-and-answer segment of the dialogue, students asked Mr Teo about issues ranging from media censorship to creating a sense of belonging.
On press control, Mr Teo pointed to democratic countries like the United States, where the media is "controlled in a different way", with "vested interests and interest groups", which render them "not objective" and "not unpartisan".
He added that it was a major concern when people listened only to sources that echoed their beliefs, "and (they) don't listen to what other people are saying".
To create a sense of belonging, he felt that family and community were critical ingredients.
Mr Teo also urged students to have a sense of "well-founded optimism" so that they would "know what is the right thing to do" and "make the right decisions" when the country was in their hands.
