It started as an ordinary day for Madam Jedah, who was cooking lunch in the kitchen of her fifth-storey, four-room HDB flat in Jurong East.
But as the 50-year-old housewife was washing rice at the sink, she had a near-death experience.
A chunk of concrete - about 25cm long and weighing 10kg - dislodged from the ceiling and landed about a metre from where she was standing.
This happened while workers who were renovating the flat directly above Madam Jedah's unit were hacking the floor of the unit.
The concrete chunk shattered a wash basin directly below the drilling point - a metre from the kitchen sink where Madam Jedah was standing.
Madam Jedah sustained minor bruises after some debris struck her waist and knee.
The incident, which happened at about 11.10am last Wednesday, left Madam Jedah shocked but thankful that she escaped with her life.
She said: "I don't know what would have happened to me if I was standing right below the (chunk of concrete) when it fell.
"I could have died if the concrete had hit my head because it is so heavy.
"I thank God for allowing me to see my family again, but now I'm afraid of going to my kitchen."
Madam Jedah, who has four daughters aged between 15 and 23, said she had read a notice about the sixth-storey renovation at the lift lobby of her block the day before.
So she was not surprised when she heard drilling noises above her flat at11am.
But when the odd-shaped piece of concrete was dislodged 10 minutes later, the housewife was so stunned that she stood rooted to the floor for about 10 seconds before recovering from shock.
Her oldest daughter, Miss Freisha Ferah 23, a student, who was in her bedroom, ran to the kitchen after hearing the crash and saw her mother standing there amid the mess.
The workers above were unaware of the incident and continued drilling despite Miss Ferah's yell for them to stop.
She then ran upstairs to tell them what had happened.
She saw three workers in the sixth-storey unit. The man hacking the floor with an air breaker (which is used to hack through concrete) immediately shut off the machine.
By then, the hole was so deep that Miss Ferah could see into her flat from the sixth-floor unit.
Madam Jedah's husband, Mr Farid Khan, 56, an odd-job worker, rushed home when his wife called to tell him about the incident.
He called the sixth-storey flat's renovation company, Concept Haus, and spoke to its owner, Mr Christopher Tan, to find how this could have happened.
He also called HDB, which sent a technical officer and engineer the same day to inspect the damage.
Mr Khan said: "Mr Tan told me that it was not his worker's fault. But if it's not his fault, then whose fault is it?"
"My wife was very lucky to escape with her life. The chunk of concrete (shattered) the (wash basin) that my daughters use to brush their teeth.
"What would have happened if one of them was using the basin when the concrete fell?"
When The New Paper contacted Mr Tan, who has been in the construction and renovation business for 10 years, he insisted that the concrete that was dislodged from the ceiling had not been reinforced properly before the renovation.
An HDB spokesman said the dislodged chunk of concrete had previously been used to seal an opening meant for sanitary pipe fittings.
Mr Tan added that the building was old and needed maintenance work.
He said that the chunk of concrete had become dislodged because his workers had hacked the floor.
"But it had not been reinforced properly in the first place. If it had been reinforced the right way, the chunk of concrete wouldn't have fallen," Mr Tan added.
"This is the first time that I've seen such a case."
Mr Tan said his firm will replace the damaged wash basin.
