SINGAPORE - The Chinese national who killed his lover, her daughter and their flatmate said he did so in a fit of rage - where his mind went blank and he lost control of his actions.
Wang Zhijian was speaking in Court during his trial on Monday, where he was taking the stand for the first time, The Straits Times (ST) reported.
He allegedly stabbed and slashed two of the victims, his 42-year-old lover from China Madam Zhang Meng and her 17-year-old daughter Feng Jianyu, a total of 98 times.
He then went into a second room in the Block 349 Yishun Street 11 flat and attacked another mother-and-daughter pair, Yang Jie, 36 and Li Meilin, then 15.
Only Li managed to survive the vicious attack.
In the witness stand, Wang told the Court of the alleged mistreatment by his lover. He said Madam Zhang beat and bit him whenever she became upset at him.
Things were not always like that, the couple, who met in 1996 in their native Tianjin, were once so in love that they pledged their love in letters written in blood and Wang had Madam Zhang's face tattooed onto his back.
Wang, who worked as a supervisor in China, came to Singapore three times on the request of Madam Zhang. She had moved to Singapore for her daughter's schooling.
He said he cooked, washed and bought food for them. Other than that, Madam Zhang did not allow him to leave his room in order to avoid meeting the other tenants. She had him defaecate and urinate into plastic bags and newspapers.
Despite feeling like he wasn't treated 'like a human being', he was unable to break up with her, as she had twice attempted to kill herself when he suggested a break-up - once by driving her car ino a bridge in 2006 and another when she threatened to jump out of a window naked in the winter of 2007.
He was also afraid she would harass his family if he broke up with her.
Things came to a boiling point on the night of Sept 18, 2008, when Madam Zhang asked him for money to eat crabs.
This sparked off a heated quarrel where Madam Zhang belittled Wang for being poor and insulted him by calling him the offspring of a dog and monkey.
After that, he said his mind was a blank and blood was gushing to his head. 'I did not see anything before my eyes, everything was red," Wang told the Court in Mandarin through an interpreter.
He said he was unable to control his thoughts, and went to the kitchen to grab a knife.
According to the ST report, he stressed that he had lost control and did not know how he had obtained the knife nor the reason for attacking the four at that time.
He said he only realised what had happened when he went to take a shower after the attacks.
He added that although he gave detailed descriptions of the attack in statements to the police, the details were not from his observation, but rather from memory and guesses.
Justice Seng Onn probed further on how Wang could remember things he did not see. Wang said what he experienced was 'like a camera', where images were captured to be recollected later.
