SINGAPORE'S main focus is on the long-term challenge of building a better future for its people, said Deputy Prime Minister and Manpower Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam.
In his May Day Message yesterday, he said that everything the Government does is "ultimately aimed at achieving inclusive growth" which benefits all Singaporean workers.
He said: "We must press on with our efforts to restructure Singapore's economy, so that we can grow on the basis of productivity and support higher wages for our workers."
This is where the country's tripartite partnership between workers, employers and the Government plays a key role in engaging companies, he said.
Mr Tharman added that the Government is working with small and medium-sized enterprises especially, to help them upgrade their operations and stay competitive in a tight labour market.
To help lower-wage workers, the Workfare Income Supplement and Workfare Training Support schemes have been put in place to encourage them to find regular work. The schemes have also helped them progress through training and skills upgrading.
He said that the Manpower Ministry will step up awareness and enforcement efforts to ensure that employers comply with the Central Provident Fund (CPF) Act and the Employment Act.
This is so that lower-wage workers receive CPF contributions and statutory employment benefits from their employers.
As many lower-wage workers are employed in industries where outsourcing is common - such as cleaning and security - the Government is working closely with its tripartite partners to promote best sourcing.
He said that the Government, as a major service buyer, will lead by example in this aspect, by procuring only from accredited cleaning companies and well-graded security agencies.
The Retirement and Re-employment Act and the Special Employment Credit - to help older workers - will be monitored closely and studied for their implementation and impact, he said.
Mr Tharman also highlighted the need to develop a "strong Singapore core of employees", including professionals, managers and executives.
"We have to keep to the right balance. We must stay open to expertise from around the world and enable our companies to have the diverse teams that allow them to remain competitive."
sujint@sph.com.sg
