An online photograph of two young women dressed in skimpy nun- like habits has raised eyebrows.
The outfits the women wore were shorter than mid-thigh length, while conventional habits cover the whole leg.
Many people, including those from the Catholic community, have criticised the photo as being insensitive.
It was posted on the Facebook page for the Escape Chapel Party to be held at Chijmes on Saturday, a day after Good Friday.
Accompanying the photo was a caption that read: "A sneak peek at what some of our girls will be wearing on the 7th of April."
The Facebook page also featured an event poster, with a woman also dressed in a habit- like outfit.
The page was set up two to three weeks ago by events organiser Creative Insurgence. The party is organised by the company and Escape, a club from Swansea in Britain.
As of 5.30pm yesterday, the event's Facebook page indicated that more than 26,500 people had been invited to the party.
Netizen Samantha Francis, 23, told citizen-journalism site Stomp that a couple of her friends had seen the page and were "outraged" by it.
"I felt that there was no need for the organisers to use (photos with) religious connotations," Ms Francis told my paper.
Polytechnic student Arin Fong, 19, said she could understand that the organisers did this "in the name of fun and entertainment".
"But it should have been done more tastefully, with Christians and Catholics in mind."
Archbishop Nicholas Chia of the Catholic Church in Singapore said the event "is scandalous to the Church" and that "such events should not be held in a chapel".
He added that the organisers should cancel the event.
Mr Aaghir Yadav, director of Creative Insurgence, said that it has apologised to the Church and has taken down the offending images.
He explained that the two women in the photo with the skimpy outfits were his friends in cosplay costumes.
"There was no religious symbolism," he said, referring to the photo and the poster.
When asked about the theme of the Escape Chapel Party, he said it was so named because of its location, Chijmes.
He added: "The focus of the party remains (its) music."
Established in 1854, Chijmes was once the Convent of the Holy Infant Jesus. Chijmes became a lifestyle destination after a $100-million restoration pro- ject was completed in 1996.
