Pernod Ricard may be a world leader in wines and spirits but the company has not forgotten that it has a responsibility towards youths even as it promotes sales of high quality alcohol.
For the second year running, Pernod Ricard employees worldwide - the company has 18,000 on its rolls - took to the streets on June 7 to promote responsible consumption of alcohol. In Singapore, 55 employees reached out to youths to raise awareness of the risks of inappropriate alcohol consumption.
Armed with a simple educational brochure on the topic, they spent the day - the company calls it Responsib'All Day - chatting with youths in the *SCAPE and Orchard Road vicinity. The young adults were advised to address the topic of Alcohol and Youth with their families, friends and in their social environment.
That's not all. As part of the initiative, senior executives of the company will visit clubs, tertiary institutions and youth groups throughout the year to spread the message on making the right choice when offered too much to drink.
Said Pernod Ricard Singapore's managing director Paul Robert-Bouhier: "We have long been committed to preventing risks associated with alcohol abuse and as a group we have been promoting this for more than 30 years. This year, our focus is on youth and we will be working with a tertiary institution on a programme to fight inappropriate alcohol consumption."
The company said reports indicate there has been a 15.5 per cent increase in occasional drunkenness or binge-drinking in Singapore. Some reports suggest that binge-drinking tendencies have increased among women. The largest proportion of males and females who binge-drink fall within the 18 to 29 age group.
Pernod Ricard Singapore's senior manager (public relations) and brand ambassador Rajan Menon told tabla! that *SCAPE was chosen primarily because it caters to the target audience and its managing director Lynette Lye MD strongly supported the initiative.
"This 'drink responsibly' message will be ongoing and a constant reminder to everyone, especially young adults in Singapore. We sent out a strong message on binge-drinking, which is on the rise, and shared educational information on formative years, alcohol appreciation and the people who have key influence on them as well as how to prevent peer pressure," he added.
According to the Health Promotion Board, binge-drinking is defined as consumption of five or more alcoholic drinks over a short period of time.
Pernod Ricard added that since May 20 its "messengers" have been distributing information booklets to youths across Singapore including clubs like Zouk and Wala Wala, *SCAPE and youth groups in Buddhist and Christian associations as well as youth members of self-help group SINDA.
It said the educational message has seen a good response from the youths.
