Outgoing chief executive of train operator SMRT, Ms Saw Phaik Hwa, has found a new job in a listed company which is not in the transporation field.
According to The Straits Times, the 57-year-old did not reveal the identity of the company and added that
it was not appropriate for her to do so, given that the company is publicly listed and should make the announcement of her appointment.
After nine years at the helm, Ms Saw resigned from SMRT on Jan 6, shortly after two massive rail breakdowns along the North-South line last December.
The incidents triggered a government-appointed committee of inquiry that will begin on April 16.
Ms Saw's resignation came as a surprise as she had said before that she was staying put despite calls for her to step down.
According to the newspaper, a search for her replacement is ongoing and it understands that possible candidates include an SMRT board member and a senior manager at a property group.
There is also talk that a retiring senior army officer is in the running.
The newspaper also reported that her ability to find a new job is similar to the comebacks she had made nearly 10 years ago.
In December 2002, Ms Saw was named chief executive of SMRT just months after being retrenched from duty-free retail chain DFS Venture Singapore, where she had been at for 19 years.
Unlike people before her, Ms Saw was not from the armed forces or civil service and her appointment raised eyebrows.
She managed to prove her sceptics wrong and grew a lucrative business for SMRT by renting out retail space within stations.
That business expanded and became SMRT's biggest profit generator, after train operations, reported The Straits Times.
However, this rental business has been criticised following the breakdowns in December. Critics said SMRT's success was at the expense of its core competency to run a rail network.
Ms Saw, who is recovering from knee surgery and a thyroid procedure, has started a blog recently.
In it, she wrote about the early challenges she faced, such as the frequent breakdowns of the Bukit Panjang LRT system, the merging of bus company Tibs Holding with SMRT, and SMRT's dismal profitability in the early days.
Insiders told The Straits Times that Ms Saw may be called to the stand at the public inquiry on April 16 to investigate the breakdowns.
The inquiry is expected to last eight weeks and her replacement is likely to be made only after the inquiry is over.
