Singapore's neutrality and openness in cross-border dispute resolution through arbitration has earned the country an international reputation, said Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong yesterday.
He said: "Companies want a neutral venue, not necessarily a host country or where the law is based. "Parties can choose any arbitrator and use any governing law, and foreign arbitrators don't need to obtain work permits or pay withholding tax."
Mr Lee was speaking at the opening ceremony of the 21st Congress of The International Council for Commercial Arbitration, held at Marina Bay Sands yesterday.
The four-day conference will be attended by more than 900 delegates from over 58 countries. They include lawyers, judges, government officials and other allied professionals.
In his speech, Mr Lee cited a 2010 survey by American law firm White and Case, which ranked Singapore third after London and Geneva as the most-preferred venue to hold arbitration hearings.
He also said that Singapore has invested in infrastructure in the form of the Maxwell Chambers, which serves as an integrated international dispute-resolution centre.
It has also developed local arbitral institutions, such as the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) and the Singapore Chamber for Maritime Arbitration.
The SIAC is ranked the fourth-most-popular arbitration institution in the world, he added.
"Arbitration is the default mode of resolving commercial cross-border disputes today. This is particularly true in emerging Asia, as companies operate in different legal systems, (with different) practices," he said.
In the first five months of the year, two times more cross-border cases were filed at the SIAC than in the same period last year.
The total sum involved for the five months also exceeded the $1.32-billion total for all the 188 cases filed last year.
Mr Lee said that one reason for Singapore's success is its rule of law.
This can be seen in its clearly defined and strictly enforced property rights, and its impartial and incorrupt judiciary and high-quality legal services.
He reiterated how Singapore had long been open to trade but its services liberalisation came later - in the 1980s and 1990s.
Today, he said the country has a very open regime where foreign firms are allowed to undertake many areas of Singapore commercial law through the Qualifying Foreign Law Practice and Joint Law Venture schemes.
Mr Lee said: "We've now become a hub for commercial legal services that support investment and trade in Asia."
