His father first tried to enrol him for drumming lessons when he was just four years old.
But Zidann Zalizan was too small and his legs were barely able to touch the pedals even on a drumset for children. The instructor told him to come back in six months, when he was tall enough.
Now, Zidann is an 11-year-old rockstar with a fan following on YouTube and Facebook.
He has played the drums in the President's Star Charity 2010, opened for legendary Malay rock band Search when they performed in Singapore in 2008, and was one of the star performers in ChildAid in 2008, 2009 - and again, this year.
"I like playing drums, because the rhythm is nice. And it's loud," says Zidann.
His 16-year-old brother, Zoffran, chimes in: "And you like to beat things."
Zidann's talent and passion for the drums came out of nowhere. Nobody else in his family plays the drums.
His father and brother play the guitar.
But Zidann's father, Mr Zalizan Ishak, 42, says: "When he was four, he watched the movie School of Rock and you could see his eyes growing bigger and bigger.
"He really liked the drummer, maybe because drummers are very flashy. That's how it all started."
Zidann's parents bought him a toy drumset, but he practised so hard it broke. Mr Zalizan, a project manager in the construction business, bought him another.
Zidann started music lessons at age five, alongside a class full of adults and teenagers.
By the time he was six, he could play adult pieces like Green Day's Boulevard of Broken Dreams and BonJovi's Livin' on a Prayer easily.
His family bought him a Pearl drumset for his sixth birthday and soundproofed his practice room in their Bukit Panjang flat. Its walls are now plastered with articles of his accomplishments.
"It was a proper adult drumset. It was so much bigger than him," recalls MrZalizan with a laugh. "We had to put everything at the lowest setting so he could actually play."
Zidann, whose idols are drummers Mike Portnoy (of Dream Theatre fame) and Travis Barker (drummer of Blink-182), now has a Mapex drumset.
He is also learning to sing and to play the piano. Zidann, a Primary 6 student at Greenridge Primary School, says: "My school teacher said I can't sit still. Sometimes, I hit the table in class."
In school, his talent is well-known. He's always invited to perform for school concerts, and the brass band teacher has approached him personally many times to join the school band.
"I don't want to join it. It's very uncomfortable. It's not my style," says Zidann, who hopes to form his own band one day.
For a boy who's just 11, Zidann is surprisingly laid-back and level-headed.
Mr Zalizan says: "Sometimes, some of the kids his age get a little starstruck around him. When he starts picking up a little bit of swagger, we have to keep him grounded.
"I tell him, what you have, other people might not. But what other people have, you also might not have."
Can play adult pieces like Green Day's Boulevard of Broken Dreams by age 6.
Only 11, he's star performer in ChildAid for 3 years
