For a mere 50 cents, the elderly residents of the Punggol South constituency are able to enjoy a breakfast set of a cup of coffee, two eggs and two slices of toasted bread at three coffee shops in Hougang Avenue 8.
Called "Community Breakfast", the initiative was the brainchild of two Hougang coffee- shop owners - Mr Tan Boon Kiat and Mr Ang Tian Chua - and is a collaboration with the Punggol South grassroots organisations.
The initiative, which got its start about two months ago, aims to benefit residents aged 50 and above. Eligible residents must take along a coupon, which entitles them to the 50-cent breakfast.
The Punggol South organisations contribute 50 cents towards each meal, while the remaining cost of the breakfast set is absorbed by the coffee shops, which charge over $2.50 per set.
One resident, Madam Lau Pay Choo, a 62-year-old retiree, applauded the initiative for the cost savings she gets to enjoy.
"This helps me save quite a bit on food," said Madam Lau, who spends around $100 on breakfasts monthly.
The breakfast initiative is a prime example of how a local community can chip in to aid the needy, said Mr Chan Chun Sing, Acting Minister for Community Development, Youth and Sports.
He urged other communities to learn from such practices.
Mr Chan spoke to reporters after a community visit to Punggol South yesterday, where he interacted with residents for some four hours.
"If everything depends on laws and national policies...it becomes very impersonal," he said. "Whatever we do at the national level...must be complemented at the local community level," he added.
He also visited the Rivervale condominium, located across the road from the Grace Lodge nursing home. The home is housed within the Singapore Buddhist Welfare Services compound.
Mr Chan was heartened that the condominium's residents expressed no qualms about living near the nursing home, showing that they are "integrated with the larger community".
After all, he said, Singapore's "societal bonds" might be compromised if Singapore becomes an exclusive "gated community" one day.
Mr Chan also fielded questions from about 300 residents during an hour-long session after his walkabout.
The questions ranged from issues regarding the trend of children sending elderly parents to nursing homes in Johor Baru, to government engagement with Singaporeans.
Mr Chan noted that there were "no easy solutions to many of these issues" and that we have to come to a "social consensus" to decide on the areas where we need to "prioritise our efforts".
gerrardl@sph.com.sg
