SINGAPORE - In an interview with The New Paper (TNP), Ms Pang Chor Mui's husband described his wife as a naive and simple woman, who had never been a loose woman.
Ms Pang, a general manager at Nimrod Engineering, allegedly had oral sex with former Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) chief Peter Lim Sin Pang in May 2010, at a car park near the Singapore Indoor Stadium.
Mr Pang admitted that he had strayed before, and that his wife had asked for a divorce after she found out about his infidelity.
Neighbours say Mr Pang hardly returns home and they heard the couple quarrelling in their condominium unit in Villa Marina, Siglap about six weeks ago.
The couple have a teenage son.
Her co-workers agreed that Ms Pang is a "simple" woman. They added that she is friendly, but prefers to keep a low profile.
An unnamed colleague interviewed by ST said that all her colleagues are surprised that Ms Pang was involved in the case.
They described her as a decent-looking woman who does not wear a lot of make-up to work.
Despite the media storm brewing over the backgrounds of the three women embroiled in the sex corruption case, other than their names and companies, little else is known about them.
It is known that two of them are in their 40s and married, and all three held senior positions in their companies.
Ms Pang and Ms Lee Wei Hoon, a director at Singapore Radiation Centre are still working at their respective companies.
However, Ms Pang has been on leave for about a month so far till an unknown date, while Ms Lee has not been spotted at SRC's office premises.
A Nimrod spokesperson told ST that the company is not involved in the matter and that their employees have been advised not to comment on the case.
SRC has been maintaining that all their top management executives are "out of town".
A neighbour of Ms Lee told ST that she lives in the Teck Whye estate HDB flat with her husband and her son.
Miss Esther Goh Tok Mui, who is unmarried, is no longer working at NCS, the company she was working for at the time of the alleged sexual trysts.
All outstanding tenders that involve Lim have been suspended and two contracts signed with NCS and Nimrod are currently under review by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).
MHA said that the people believed to be involved in the case are no longer servicing the SCDF accounts.
