Family and friends of Ms Shigemi Ito bade farewell to her during a private cremation ceremony held at the Mandai Crematorium yesterday morning.
The Japanese woman was one of the victims in last Saturday's three-vehicle collision, involving a Ferrari, at the junction of Rochor Road and Victoria Street. Ms Ito, 41, who was travelling in a taxi when the crash occurred, later died at the Singapore General Hospital.
A statement sent via e-mail to the media on Tuesday night provided information on her as well as quotes from Ms Ito's friends.
The e-mail message was signed off by "Bernard Ho, for the Ito family", and contained a compilation of Ms Ito's personal details as well as quotes from her close friends.
It said: "We understand that there is public interest in Ms Ito, and the attached is what we can quickly put together for you.
"This will be the only information that we will be providing."
Someone who signed off as a "close family friend" wrote: "I still remember her sweet voice calling me 'sister'.
"She treated Singapore as her home."
Ms Ito was from the city of Nagoya, Japan. It is not known when she arrived in Singapore, but it is understood that she had lived here for a number of years. Last Saturday's crash claimed three lives, including Ms Ito's.
Mr Cheng Teck Hock, 52, the taxi driver whose vehicle Ms Ito had been in, was pronounced brain-dead and died at 7pm on Sunday. Chinese national Ma Chi, 31, the Ferrari driver, was pronounced dead at the scene.
Two others - motorcyclist Muhammad Najib Ghazali, 25; and Mr Ma's female passenger, Chinese student Wu Wei Wei, in her 20s - were injured.
A check by my paper showed that Mr Ma was listed as the director of Techaccount, a Singapore firm that deals in software programming and portfolio investment funds. The company was registered in 2009 with an address at the Henderson Industrial Park.
When contacted, company secretary Ganesh Sharma Krishna said he did not know Mr Ma on a personal level, as they corresponded mostly via e-mail.
Mr Krishna was "shocked" when he heard about Mr Ma's death.
