PM Lee welcomed netizens to his Facebook page with this opening address:
'Hello Everybody,
Welcome to my Facebook page! :-))
The social media have changed the way we live, work and play, especially the way we connect with one another.
Societies, communities and governments all over the world will not be the same again.
Many of my colleagues have been using social media, including Facebook.
They have encouraged me to start my own Facebook page. Having watched them, I have decided to join the fun.
I hope you will find my Facebook page interesting.
I will use it to talk about some of the things I am doing, and thinking about, but I would also like to hear from you.
Let's use this page to help shape ideas and understanding of what we can do together to improve our lives.
As a Facebook newbie, I would appreciate your advice, suggestions and, most of all, your patience.
My staff will help me maintain this page, but I will try to post as often as I can myself.
I will sign off my own posts with the initials 'LHL'.
If you wish to write in Malay, Chinese or Tamil, please feel free to do so.
I hope you like (and Like) what you read. Thank you very much for your support.
LHL'
As part of the page's house rules, the page administrator wrote: "We hope you will use this page to engage in meaningful and constructive discussions with Mr Lee and with one another. Please share your opinions respectfully and courteously, and refrain from offensive comments and personal attacks."
"We may remove content and/or take preventive action against those who abuse the page."
Aside from Facebook, PM Lee also joined Twitter, using the handle @leehsienloong.
His first tweet reads:
"Just launched my Facebook and Twitter pages. Do visit me at https://www.facebook.com/leehsienloong ! LHL"
Six hours after his initial tweet, he had already amassed 3,545 followers.
He then tweeted: "Thank u all! V touched by ur responses &amp; encouragement. Good night! - LHL"
His Facebook page offers a glimpse of his personal life, with photos of important milestones in his life highlighted on his Timeline.
He posted pictures of himself including his days in primary school, his days serving National Service, his graduation and his wedding.
Significant events in his political career were also highlighted, with photos, as well.
Meanwhile, a look at his 'About' section shows that Mr Lee likes reading, walking, listening to classical music, and tinkering with computers.
While his page is maintained by the Prime Minister's Officer, Mr Lee assured netizens that post personally as often as he can, signing off with his initials, LHL.
