KUALA LUMPUR - Palace and security officials have come out with their version of a brawl that occurred on the tourist resort island of Rawa in Johor between four foreigners and bodyguards of a royal entourage.
They said it began when the foreigners, who appeared to have been intoxicated, created a ruckus and verbally abused members of a royal family and their guests dining at the island resort on Friday night.
One of the foreigners apparently trespassed onto a power boat belonging to the Sultan of Johor berthed at the jetty and tried to choke a crew member who tried to prevent him from boarding.
That incident and the disrespect shown by the foreigners - British, French and German nationals working in Singapore - led to the brawl that ended with at least two of the expatriates injured, the officials said yesterday.
The foreigners returned to Singapore where two of them were treated at a hospital. The German is still being warded.
The Singapore Straits Times quoted a 28-year-old British man as saying the bodyguards assaulted him and his friends at Alang's Rawa resort.
"They grabbed my arm, surrounded and kicked me in my genitalia to disable me first, then the onslaught just happened," said the Briton, who did not want to be identified.
The holidaymaker said he and his three friends, all in their 20s, were having dinner on Friday night when a Malaysian VIP arrived with a big entourage and "they started playing hip-hop music".
Later, according to him, two of them were invited over for drinks, but things took a turn for the worse over something his German friend said.
The newspaper quoted him as saying: "My friend was in mid-conversation with the VIP and his cousin when this aggressive-looking guy came out of nowhere and just slapped him.
"I don't know what the nature of the conversation was as I was at the other end of the table, but there was something that was said that wasn't correct'."
The foreigners were asked to leave the island after settling the bill and later lodged a report with the Singapore police and complained to their respective embassies.
However, the security officials disputed the foreigners' account.
They said the foreigners had rudely interrupted members of the royal family and their guests dining at the resort at about 11pm.
"After showing the finger, the man shouted vulgar words at the royalty.
"This made everyone there angry and there was a brawl," one security official said.
The officials said a bodyguard who witnessed the insult confronted the foreigners and that led to a fight.
They said a foreigner injured himself after stepping on a coral and was treated by a doctor in the royal entourage.
The officials said Sultan Ibrahim Ibni Almarhum Sultan Iskandar of Johor, when informed of the incident at about 7.30am on Saturday, was upset and asked that the hotel ensured the safety of their guests.
Johor police chief Deputy Comm Datuk Mohd Mokhtar Shariff confirmed the incident and said nine police reports had been lodged by various quarters. Police have classified the case under Section 452 of the Penal Code concerning trespassing and assault,
"We have yet to receive any report from the four foreigners," he said.
A spokesman for the British High Commission in Singapore said it was following up the matter with the Malaysian authorities. The Straits Times also reported that the German embassy was involved.
Friday's episode was the second incident involving royal family members on Rawa island.
In 2005, six men gatecrashed a Brazilian couple's wedding at the resort and allegedly attacked guests.
