Imagine sitting in your vehicle for up to eight hours at a stretch, just waiting to dump a load of soil.
That's the lot of the tipper truck drivers at Tanah Merah Coast Road, where these photos were taken last month.
A passer-by alerted The New Paper to a queue of trucks there, estimating about 100 trucks in line at about 9.30am on a Tuesday.
The drivers were waiting to enter the Changi Staging Ground, where they would dump excavated material from construction sites.
The site is run by the Housing Board for this purpose. The materials can only be dumped in places sanctioned for this purpose. The passer-by,who declined to be named, said: "For all the push for productivity, it seems incongruous that lorries have to queue up for hours to dump (soil)."
It appears that the queue can be highly unpredictable, as there was no queue when TNP went to check out the site.
On a Thursday at about 11am, there were several lorries entering the staging area, but no queue.
The next day, at about 9.30am, again, there was no queue. Truck drivers could even afford to park along the road and speak to us.
We were told that it was a "slow" day. But when the queue gets bad, the wait can take up to four hours, said Mr Kannan Veeramanie, 38, an Indian national who has been working here for 19 years.
He said he has to make three to four trips there every day. Some weeks, he would be caught in a queue every day, while other weeks would go smoothly, he said.
The guard who records the vehicles entering and leaving the staging area, Mr Mastana, 30, said it's hard to predict when a queue will happen as it depends on the situation at the different worksites.
Said Mr Kannan: "I drive about seven hours a day, which I don't mind. But when I have to wait, it's very tiring and I get fed up."
He added that his pay is good - his monthly salary is about $2,500 - but the prolonged sitting and waiting causes his back to ache.
He said he cannot step out of the truck to stretch his legs because drivers have to remain in their vehicles.
"Although it's slow, the queue keeps moving. I don't want to hold everyone up," he said.
"The most we can do is to use our truck radios to chit chat, so that it's not so boring."
And what do the other drivers do?
Mr Kannan said some have installed mini TV sets in their vehicles to pass the time, while others read.
Mostly, they just take naps.
There are no toilets while the trucks are in the queue, so what do they do when nature calls?
One driver in his 30s, who declined to be named, said in Mandarin: "No choice, I have to relieve myself among the trees nearby."
The driver, a Chinese national, said the waiting time "varies from day to day" and there is no way to predict if there will be a queue.
"I've waited six to eight hours before. It's a very long wait, but there's nothing I can do, it's part of my job."
Some drivers take the opportunity to relieve their boredom at the same time, by having peeing competitions.
Said Mr Mastana: "I see them peeing on the road just to show off to the others. "If they do it too close to the staging area, I will ask them to stop.
"But it's very funny."
There is a makeshift toilet inside the staging area, but the drivers hardly use it as they don't want to leave their trucks for too long.
There are no eateries nearby, so they have to pack in their own meals, said Mr Kannan.
"I put my food and drink on a tray which rests on my steering wheel, so I can eat while I wait," he said.
TNP understands that Mr Kannan's company has raised the issue about trucks waiting too long to the Singapore Contractors Association Limited (Scal).
According to Scal's website, it is the official representative of the construction industry here, with more than 2,000 members.
A spokesman told TNP that it is preparing a paper about the problem of the long lorry queues, which it will present to the relevant ministries.
He declined to comment further until the paper was ready.
HDB said it is aware of the problem and that it has taken steps to improve traffic flow.
Since this month, the waiting time has become shorter, said Mr Kannan.
"Now, I can finish everything in less than an hour."
