SINGAPORE - Workers' Party (WP) candidate for Hougang, Mr Png Eng Huat, reiterated his stance against the Non-Constituency Member of Parliament (NCMP) scheme yesterday, saying he did not want to go to Parliament via that route.
"I just want to send a message to (Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean) that I'm the best man for the job and the NCMP position that he cited - (on) why wasn't I considered - is because I have a stand against it," Mr Png told reporters between campaigning activities in Hougang Avenue 2.
The semi-retired businessman, 50, was responding to comments made by Mr Teo at Sunday's People's Action Party (PAP) rally.
Mr Teo had asked why the WP had not chosen Mr Png to be an NCMP after the General Election last year.
He said voters need to question why they should send Mr Png to Parliament now.
Last year, the WP was offered two NCMP seats, one from the single-seat Joo Chiat constituency and the other from its five-member East Coast GRC team, which Mr Png was a part of.
Mr Png's stand against the NCMP scheme was the source of controversy in the past two days.
In an interview on Monday, he said he had taken his name out of the "ballot" for the NCMP post last year.
But images circulated online by an anonymous source later raised questions on what Mr Png said.
They appeared to be minutes of a WP extraordinary meeting held on May 12 last year, and showed that Mr Png's name was included in a secret vote by the party's central executive committee for the NCMP post.
Yesterday morning, Mr Png cleared the air on the issue and said his name had to be put in with those of the other four East Coast GRC members, as it was party procedure.
He received one vote, while Mr Gerald Giam got seven, he said.
Mr Giam was selected for the NCMP position.
On his use of the word "ballot" in the earlier interview, Mr Png said he meant it to mean "a voting process".
"In short, it means I wanted to take myself out of the running for the position of NCMP. I'll definitely apologise for the confusion. But the stance is very clear in my head. No matter what happens, nobody can persuade me to take up the NCMP post," he added.
At last night's WP rally in Hougang Central, WP secretary-general Low Thia Khiang confirmed that the minutes circulated were authentic and invited the public to take a look at it.
Mr Low said Mr Png did ask for his name to be left out, but as the NCMP selection was a "collective" party decision, "personal preferences" had to be set aside.
He said the appearance of the minutes was a "calculated move" and a "weak attempt" at discrediting the WP's candidate in Hougang.
In his rally speech, Mr Png said that the PAP made their candidates "look good" after they lost an election.
In a constituency won by the opposition, the People's Association appoints the losing PAP candidate as a grassroots adviser, he said.
Mr Png also laid out a detailed scheme of the number of Housing Board blocks which will receive upgrading, roof repairs and new elderly-friendly facilities.
On the NCMP issue, PAP's candidate, Mr Desmond Choo, 34, told reporters yesterday at a Hougang coffeeshop that he is "very focused" on his own campaign and that "it is something for the WP to deal with".
Mr Teo, who was with Mr Choo, stood firm on what he said on Sunday, and told reporters that the WP has not been "upright and honest" with voters and it was not clear if the WP had put its best man in Hougang.
Still, he said he will give Mr Png a "fair chance" to clarify matters.
