Singtel subscribers, including those who have multi-SIM cards and share the data bundles in their mobile subscription plans between their smartphones and iPads, need not worry that they will be affected by the telco's upcoming data-size cuts - as long as they roll over their plans.
The telco announced earlier this month that it will cut the size of the data bundle it offers across its subscription plans, from 12GB to as low as 2GB from next month, even as it launched its high-speed fourth- generation (4G) services for smartphone users.
But many consumers are still not aware that this applies only to new subscribers or those who re-contract their plans with the telco from July 1 onwards.
If a SingTel subscriber sticks with his current plan even after the initial 24-month contract period is over, otherwise known as rolling over the plan, he will enjoy the original 12GB data bundle each month, said Mr Dylan Tan, senior corporate-communications manager for SingTel.
And this could be a permanent thing - as long as he does not get a new smartphone from the telco directly.
In other words, consumers must buy the smartphones directly from individual handset makers or buy them from independent third-party handset vendors.
For instance, those who hope to get the rumoured iPhone 5 in a few months' time have no choice but to get it from a separate vendor after the phone's launch - if they want to continue to enjoy the 12GB data bundle from their telco.
SingTel subscribers, especially those who pay more each month for multi-SIM cards, welcome this piece of information.
"I was initially really worried that if I continue my current usage of about 2GB on my smartphone and another 3GB to 4GB on my iPad each month, I would soon have to pay additional charges for excess usage," said Mr Raymond Ong, 30, an engineer, who subscribes to SingTel's Flexi Value plan for $59.90 each month.
Specifically for this plan, the data-bundle limit is set to be trimmed from 12GB to 3GB from next month for new and re-contracting users.
"But now that I realise that there is the possibility that I can still enjoy the higher data limit in the long run, I'm not as disgruntled...I can always get a new smartphone from alternative dealers," he added.
Mr Tang Yong Meng, 28, a colleague of Mr Ong and another multi-SIM user with SingTel, does not mind paying the typically higher prices charged by independent sellers for just the purchase of the handsets.
"If I were to buy a new smartphone from Samsung, Sony Ericsson or even a third-party vendor, I would probably have to pay between $100 and $200 more than if I bought from SingTel directly and re-contracted my plan," he said.
"However, in the long term, it translates to more cost savings, especially if I use a lot of data each month."
In response to my paper's queries, SingTel said it has no plans at the moment to launch additional subscription packages for subscribers who apply for multi-SIM cards to share their data bundle between their smartphones and iPads.
Based on current usage patterns tracked, 90 per cent of its subscribers do not exceed the data bundles of the new plans rolled out, SingTel's Mr Tan said. These include both single- and multi-SIM users.
SingTel, however, declined to to reveal the number of its multi-SIM subscribers. "By encouraging fair use of the network, our new data plans aim to ensure a high-quality and consistent mobile-broadband experience for all customers in the long term," said Mr Tan.
He added that SingTel customers can monitor their data usage via the MySingTel app or by dialling *72266.
The following applies to both 3G and 4G multi-SIM customers: $10.70 (for two cards) - one main SIM + one multi-SIM card tied to the main SIM number;
$21.40 (for three cards) - one main SIM + two multi-SIM cards tied to the main SIM number;
$32.10 (for four cards) - one main SIM + three multi-SIM cards tied to the main SIM number.
Ninety per cent of our customers do not consume more than the data bundles of the new plans.
These include both single and multi-SIM users.
To minimise the impact on the remaining 10 per cent who are heavy users, we have reduced the excess-usage rate to $5.35 per GB, which is significantly more affordable than the existing rate of $2.76 per MB.
Customers can sign up for a new line or re-contract on the new tiered data plans only from July 1.
Existing customers, including single- and multi-SIM customers, who choose not to re-contract their Flexi or iFlexi price plan will continue to be entitled to the 12GB data bundle.
They will not be automatically switched to the new bundle scheme at any point.
The same applies for customers who sign up for new plans or re-contract existing plans before July 1.
Existing customers who choose not to re-contract their Flexi or iFlexi price plan will continue to be entitled to the 12GB data bundle.
However, these customers will miss out on attractive subsidised prices for new handsets which are available only when purchased together with a new plan.
