From July 9, private schools here which make unsubstantiated claims of being No. 1 may be flouting new advertising rules set by the Council for Private Education.
In a statement issued yesterday, the council said that its new advertising code establishes "clear ground rules for responsible and truthful advertising by private education institutions".
This will serve to "better protect consumers against misleading advertisements".
The council, which was set up in 2009 to regulate the private-education industry, added that the code was developed after consultations with schools and members of the public.
Under the new guidelines, superlatives like "100 per cent student satisfaction" will not be allowed, when such claims are unsubstantiated. Photographs that advertise campus facilities must be verified to have been taken on the school's premises.
Other guiding principles which must be followed include truthful representation of courses; fair competition through ads that do not discredit or exploit competitors; and the observance of social values in ads, so that they do not contain offensive words or pictures.
Advertisements must also not exploit prospective students' lack of knowledge in the area of private education.
The code will apply to all types of advertisements and commercial communication materials, such as brochures, pamphlets, posters and banners.
According to the council, areas where the "most frequent occurrences of misleading advertising" have been observed include information on course fees, claims about the school, and information on courses.
Mr Henry Heng, its chief executive, said: "The advertising code clarifies the mandatory requirements...that will help private education institutions to be more factually accurate and responsible in (making) claims.
"Ultimately, our aim is to ensure that students and prospective students are given accurate information, which they can then (use to) make informed decisions."
Those who fail to comply with the code may be subjected to legal action.
For instance, under section 46(1) of the Private Education Act, any person convicted of knowingly or recklessly issuing or publishing any false or misleading advertisement about a private education institution shall be liable to a fine of up to $5,000, imprisonment for up to six months, or both.
