Every training incident is "painful" and prompts the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) to review its safety measures, said Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen yesterday.
Dr Ng said that a Committee of Inquiry (COI) has been convened to investigate the deaths of two full-time national servicemen (NSFs) earlier this year.
He said: "Every incident resulting in injury or death is painful to us and gets top management priority, to make it right."
The COI will "determine if measures taken to treat, resuscitate and evacuate" Private (Pte) Amirul Syahmi Kamal, 20, and Pte Dominique Sarron Lee Rui Feng, 21, were adequate and prompt, he added. Dr Ng also revealed that Pte Amirul had been found hanging in a locked toilet cubicle at his camp.
Five servicemen have died so far this year.
Dr Ng was responding to queries from several Members of Parliament, who asked if the SAF's medical system - including its emergency evacuation procedures and servicemen's physical classification system - is adequate to cater to personnel who may have medical conditions.
Dr Ng said the SAF is not looking to wait until the COI - which could take a few months to conclude - presents its recommendations to improve the safety system in place.
Dr Lim Wee Kiak, MP for Nee Soon GRC and chair of the Government Parliamentary Committee for Defence and Foreign Affairs, had asked Dr Ng if the current system of a casualty being sent to an SAF medical centre instead of being taken direct to a hospital was adequate.
Dr Ng said that the SAF Medical Corps is conducting its own review to determine "whether steps taken, and facilities and expertise are up to par".
The Physical Employment Status method of classifying servicemen was also a topic of discussion yesterday.
MP for Tampines GRC Irene Ng highlighted that Pte Lee, who was asthmatic, had been exposed to "asthma triggers" such as smoke grenades when he collapsed during training. She called for better diagnostic tests for servicemen who are exposed to allergens.
Dr Ng said that about one in five servicemen suffers from mild asthma and that many have gone through training "without adverse effects". He added that it would be premature to pinpoint the smoke grenades as having caused the death of Pte Lee.
He said: "We know that we have the responsibility to keep sons of Singapore safe while training."
darylldj@sph.com.sg
