The Marina Bay area has never looked as exciting as it is now.
You'll have no doubt visited Marina Bay Sands, but another place of note is the nearby Marina Bay City Gallery, located at the Marina Bay waterfront promenade. Opened in July 2010, the free gallery displays a permanent exhibition dedicated to Marina Bay.
The displays take you all the way back to the 1800s, giving you insight into the area's past.
Mr Mark Goh, deputy director of place management at the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), the agency in charge of developing Marina Bay, said the gallery is where people can learn about what has been achieved in the area, how it was transformed from a swampy coastline into an iconic precinct.
He added that URA hopes to ensure that the bay remains "an endearing space for the community and, at the same time, an energetic and thriving precinct for businesses and international visitors". And once you're done perusing the area's history, visit the new eateries that have sprouted up in the area.
One of them is Tong Le Private Dining, located in the revolving OUE Tower, which offers spectacular panoramic views of the glittering bay. Less than six months old, the reservations-only restaurant owned by TungLok Group is its first private-dining outlet.
Ms Carolyn Tan, senior vice-president of the group, said the spot was chosen because the Bay area was growing ever more vibrant, while the OUE Tower is a unique heritage building that offers beautiful views of the waterfront.
The restaurant caters to the professionals working in the financial and business district. "As a restaurant with good food, service and ambience, we aim to attract those who appreciate the finer things in life," said Ms Tan.
Another new player in the area is six-month-old Loola's by Awfully Chocolate at the Esplanade. It is opened by chocolate chain Awfully Chocolate, which also owns casual eateries like Everything with Fries.
Ms Lyn Lee, co-founder of Awfully Chocolate, said the company wanted to try something "a little more upmarket" than its previous offerings in the area.
And Loola's location suits it just fine, as the Esplanade is a "Singapore landmark of great stature".
"When we saw the space at the Esplanade, we thought it was different from the usual mall spaces we'd seen, because of its al fresco balcony, the large windows with views of greenery, and the Marina Bay skyline," said Ms Lee.
Mr Kunal Pushkarna, owner of Mediterranean vegetarian bistro Pita Pan at Marina Bay Sands, said he picked the spot because the integrated resort has become "the new monumental icon of Singapore". Mr Pushkarna is the son of restaurateur Reena Pushkarna, known as Israel's "queen of curry".
Mr Pushkarna said: "Marina Bay Sands has become a centre for people all around the world to get together. It represents a multiracial and multicultural assembly of people."
Afterschool is scheduled to start a Japan tour on April 27.
