The collection of new passports for Singapore citizens will take less than two minutes, after the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) introduces a self-service kiosk later this year. The kiosk, called iCollect, will seamlessly dispense the passports after successful applicants have had their identities verified biometrically.
This will be done through the use of technology such as thumbprint verification and facial recognition. iCollect is the first of its kind in the world.
The kiosk will be able to handle up to 1,500 transactions daily, and aims to shave time off the current four minutes needed for over-the-counter collections at the ICA Building in Kallang, or at post offices.
There are also plans to extend use of the kiosk for other secured documents, such as identity cards and Long-Term Passes.
This was revealed during the ICA workplan seminar yesterday.
ICA Commissioner Clarence Yeo announced that the authority will manage all immigration- related offences starting later this year, after it takes over some functions currently handled by the police. This includes all investigative and associated functions involving harbouring and employment cases here, he said.
Mr Yeo explained that a new framework will see the "centralised management of all immigration-related offences" at ICA, allowing greater synergy in its enforcement efforts.
The event, held at the Institute of Technical Education College West in Chua Chu Kang, was attended by Minister of State for Home and Foreign Affairs Masagos Zulkifli.
Mr Masagos praised ICA for detecting a record high of 80,800 contraband smuggling cases last year, despite an increase in workload at checkpoints.
He said: "It is challenging because you are a lean force overseeing possibly one of the busiest land, sea and air checkpoints in the world.
"The environment in which our officers operate is characterised by constant change and uncertainty."
ICA processes more than 180 million travellers at its checkpoints annually.
Among the new initiatives revealed yesterday was a biometric-enabled handheld device named the Mobile Automated Verification and Identification System (Mavis). It allows ICA officers to ascertain a person's identity through his fingerprint and face.
It can also be used to check the validity of various documents, such as Long-Term Visit Passes and identity cards. Mavis is currently in its final stage of development and will be ready in the second half of the year.
ICA is also looking to enhance its automated immigration system for motorcyclists to allow bi-directional clearance, starting at the Woodlands Checkpoint.
