BUCHAREST - A Romanian court on Friday watched Singapore surveillance video footage showing a deadly 2009 car crash allegedly involving a former Romanian diplomat charged with manslaughter.
The footage shows a dark-coloured car running down a pedestrian crossing the street but it was impossible to make out the plate number or the driver's face.
The car could be seen driving away from the crash after the driver failed to get out to check on the victim's condition.
Ionescu, who has been charged with manslaughter, causing physical injuries and making false statements, has repeatedly denied he was driving the car and claimed the vehicle had been stolen.
The former charge d'affaires is alleged to have hit three pedestrians in two separate incidents, in December 2009, while driving a car belonging to the Romanian mission.
One pedestrian, a 30-year-old Malaysian national, suffered brain damage and died.
The court also watched video footage from the parking and the entrance of the Legend Palace, a karaoke bar where Ionescu had spent most of the night before the accident.
The taped call he made from a taxi to the Singapore police to report his car was missing was also played in court.
&ldquo;The footage confirms what I have always said, namely that one cannot see anything,&rdquo; Ionescu told AFP outside the court on Friday.
&ldquo;There was indeed an accident and I think our car was involved but I was not driving it.&rdquo;
Ionescu who fled the country shortly after the hit-and-run accident claims he was framed by the Singapore authorities who did not appreciate his critical reports of the situation there.
A new hearing is due on April 11, when Romanian witensses are to testify, followed on May 18 by a video conference with Singapore witnesses testifying. The trial started in October 2010.
&ldquo;No matter how long it takes, we will follow the case all the way through,&rdquo; Singapore's special envoy to Romania, Anil Kumar Nayar, told AFP on Friday, reaffirming his &ldquo;confidence&rdquo; in Romanian justice.
