Singapore is the first country to hold a launch event for the UNCITRAL Digest on the Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration publication.
The Saturday evening event was hosted by the Ministry of Law (MinLaw) and Maxwell Chambers, in collaboration with the Secretariat of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL).
The event was graced by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Law, Mr K Shanmugam, who officiated the launch.
He expressed hopes that the launch event would mark the beginning of a deeper relationship between UNCITRAL and Singapore.
To commemorate the official launch of the Digest, Mr Salim Moollan, Chair of UNCITRAL of the 44th session (2011 - 2012) presented a copy of the Digest to Mr Shanmugam.
Mr Renaud Sorieul, the Secretary of UNCITRAL, spoke on the importance of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration and explained the history and purpose of the Digest.
To-date, the UNCITRAL Model Law has been adopted by 90 jurisdictions around the world which has led to the need for uniform interpretation of its provisions which the Digest, a compilation of cases from 37 States, aims to facilitate.
The contributors of the Digest - Professor Lawrence Boo, Dr Stefan Kr&ouml;ll and Mr Frederic Bachand - led an interactive panel discussion on the contents of the Digest after the launch.
More than 90 representatives from local and foreign law firms and arbitral bodies such as the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC), Singapore Chamber of Maritime Association (SCMA), Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA), ICC International Court of Arbitration, American Arbitration Association (AAA) and the International Federation of Commercial Arbitration Institutions (IFCAI) attended the launch event.
As part of MinLaw's efforts to further develop Singapore as an arbitration hub, it will also be organising the Arbitration Dialogue 2012 tomorrow to engage prominent international and local arbitrators on the long-term development of Singapore's legal and arbitration sectors and in particular our International Arbitration Act (IAA).
