SINGAPORE - From July this year, parents of young children can use the funds in their Child Development Account (CDA) for more purchases for their kids.
The Ministry of Community Development, Youth and Sports (MCYS) today announced enhancements to the CDA to better support the developmental needs of children.
Currently, the funds can only be used to pay for fees at child care centres, kindergartens, special education schools and early intervention programmes; medical-related expenses at registered clinics and hospitals; as well as MediShield or Medisave-approved private integrated insurance plans.
From July 1, 2012, parents will be able to use CDA funds to make purchases on healthcare-related products or services at licensed pharmacies, optical shops and providers of assistive technology devices.
This includes medication prescribed by a medical practitioner or pharmacist, surgical products, over-the-counter medication, dermatological products or vitamins and health supplements at pharmacies licensed by the Health Sciences Authority.
They can also buy optical appliances, optical-related eye care products and services (e.g. spectacles, eye tests) at optical shops.
CDA funds can also be used for the purchase, rental or loan of assistive technology devices or accessories (e.g. hearing aids, Braille laptops, wheelchairs) as certified by a medical practitioner, allied health professional or social worker for the child's use.
With this expansion, about 700 more outlets will be added to the list of approved institutions (AIs) under the Baby Bonus scheme. The AIs will have MCYS' 'Certificate of Approval' and 'Baby Bonus' sticker displayed at their premises. Parents may also refer to the Baby Bonus website for the list of AIs.
In addition, with effect from Jan 1 next year, the CDA will be extended by 6 years. This means that the CDA of a child will remain open until Dec 31 of the year the child turns 12, instead of Dec 31 of the year the child turns 6. MCYS will announce more details on the extension closer to the implementation date.
The CDA, which is part of the Baby Bonus scheme, is a savings account where parents' deposits are matched dollar-for-dollar by the Government, up to a cap ranging from $6,000 to $18,000, depending on the birth order of the child.
