SINGAPORE - AVA has completed their investigations into the case of the cat which died after it was found caught in a glue trap placed at a HDB bin centre, and concluded that the cat could have possibly been saved if its rescue had not been botched.
The case came to light when the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) posted up pictures of the cat covered with so much glue that only the tiny tuft of white fur between its shut eyes gave an inkling of its original appearance.
It had been caught on a glueboard trap placed by a pest control company at a bin centre beside Blk 527 Jurong West St 52 on February 17 this year.
The board, measuring 1.2m by 1.5m, is used for catching rats.
They later rescued the cat and euthanised it to prevent undue suffering.
The picture and its accompanying message, which had been posted on its Facebook page, later went viral, prompting calls for the Agri-Food &amp; Veterinary Authority of Singapore (AVA) to ban the use of such traps.
AVA responded by conducting an investigation into the matter.
According to an update posted on its Facebook page on Friday, the pest control company which set the trap has been fined and given a stern warning.
This is as the company failed to take the necessary precautions to prevent non-target animals from being caught on the trap.
However, in a surprise revelation, the investigations also revealed that the pest control company was not wholly responsible for the state of the cat when it was brought to SPCA.
The cat was in severe respiratory distress when it was brought to the SPCA vet, and this led to the cat being put down, AVA said.
However, based on the informant's photograph and his eyewitness account, the cat only had its legs stuck to the glue board when it was found.
It could possibly have been saved, if not for the rescue operation done by SPCA, AVA said.
During the rescue, SPCA personnel used a plastic garbage bag to remove and transport the cat, and inadvertently caused the glue to spread to other parts of the cat's body.
AVA has reviewed the use of glue traps with the National Environment Agency (NEA), which licenses pest control companies, and concluded that a ban on the use of glue traps could adversely impact the effective handling of rodent situations in Singapore.
This could potentially result in hygiene and disease problems, AVA said.
Nonetheless, to ensure that non-target animals are not caught in glue traps, AVA and NEA have reviewed the existing guidelines on the use of such traps, and will be issuing a revised set of guidelines.
In response to the allegations, SPCA posted a reply in a comment on the original post, saying that their staff &ldquo;did their best with what was available&rdquo;.
"SPCA received a call on 17 Feb that a stray cat was glued on a box and the caller stated that its tongue was hanging out, and it was dying," it read.
"Our Animal Support Officer asked if the caller could take the cat to the nearest vet as the distressed cat could then be attended to faster since this was an emergency.
"The name of a clinic in the area was given to the caller. They said they preferred SPCA to attend to the call."
When SPCA's animal rescue officers reached the scene about 20mins later, they were unprepared for what they saw at the scene, they said.
"Our staff did their best with what was available," they stressed, saying that their priority was to get the animal to their clinic.
The gasping cat was then removed from the glue board and placed on a plastic bag. The cat was then placed into a pet carrier.
SPCA said that their veterinarians were in agreement that transportation was the best option under the circumstances.
They acknowledged that while in the course of the transportation process, the cat might have struggled, thus causing the glue to spread across the rest of its body.
However, they said that it was their veterinarians' opinion, based on the description of the cat's symptoms by the caller and rescue staff, that the cat's condition would not have worsened significantly.
They highlighted that they had never encountered a case of such proportions before, the glue board having been "grossly oversized and the glue used in such excessive quantities."
SPCA said going forward, they have investigated and reviewed their processes for such cases in future.
However, they pointed out that the bottom line is that the incident could have been prevented had glue traps been banned. "The SPCA still stands by its call to ban the use of glue traps," they said.
