National University of Singapore's (NUS) MBA student Varun Mittal has won the Graduate Business Forum's (GBF) 2012 Leadership award.
The award was presented to him at the Graduate Business Conference held at Simon School of Business, University of Rochester, New York on March 30.
The GBF is a non-profit organisation which was started in 1983. It brings together business and political leaders and MBA students from the world's top 50 business schools to develop responsible leadership and global citizenship. Institutions like Harvard, Wharton, Stanford and London Business School participate in the forum while leading business schools from India, like the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad, and NUS have also seen representation over the years.
This year over 110 students and alumni convened at the 29th annual conference which was held from March 29 to April 1 in Rochester.
Mr Mittal, 24, won the award for implementing an integrated IT platform which allows NUS' MBA students to communicate and maintain their e-mail addresses for life. His initiative, called Project Maximus, provides knowledge and multimedia management services to the students in an integrated application suite. The initiative was supported by Google, through its Google Apps Education Edition.
Mr Mittal told tabla!: "It's wonderful to be recognised at such a prestigious event, where top students from around the world are present. But really the credit goes to my business school that supported me through the initiative."
He said the idea evolved from the need to ensure that networks are not lost and to provide a platform where ideas could be shared. "While Google provided us with the infrastructure and all the legalities were taken care of by the school, we implemented the platform ourselves," Mr Mittal said.
The Google education app is being used by top univeristies like Harvard, Stanford and Yale.
An engineer by training, Mr Mittal worked at Gemalto, a digital security solutions provider, in Singapore before signing up for the MBA. The Uttar Pradesh native is currently in his final term of the MBA course and is the student director of the institute's career services.
The NUS MBA was ranked 23rd by the Financial Times in its global MBA rankings for 2012.
Another Indian student, Mr Santosh Mohanram from the Indian School of Business (ISB) in Hyderabad, won the second leadership award. The Responsible Leader Award was presented to four students - Ms Angela Behnken, Ms Shilpa Arya, Mr Carter Posey and Mr Chris Chandler - from Georgia Institute of Technology for establishing the Georgia Tech MBA Community Fund.
The awards were presented by GBF founder Jim Deveau, vice president Wieteke Dupain and Simon School of Business dean Mark Zupan.
The 2013 Graduate Business Conference will be held in ISB, Hyderabad.
