Helpless victims of brutal, overzealous bouncers? Hardly.
Mr Dennis Foo, chief executive officer of St James Holdings, has come out in defence of his security men, dismissing the claims by a group of tourists who had alleged that they were bashed up by the bouncers.
And he has the video to prove it.
The New Paper on Sunday has seen the video. And according to Mr Foo, so have the police.
The tourists had claimed to The New Paper on May 1 that they were set upon by up to 30 of the club's security officers after being escorted out of one of the clubs in the complex at Sentosa Gateway.
Thirty men? The video shows just a handful.
Says Mr Foo: "They are foreigners. They can just leave the country and leave us with a trail of problems and baseless accusations.
"Thank God we have the CCTV footage to prove our innocence!"
The group of six - five Americans and one Singaporean - were partying at The Boiler Room, one of the entertainment complex's six clubs, on April 27.
They claimed that while there, they were invited on stage by the band, but got off when told to do so by the club's security supervisor, Mr Syahrulizan Mohamed Jaffar.
One of them tried to get on stage again, and was again asked to get off. But another two friends got on the stage.
That was when Mr Syahrul, 29, escorted one of them out, wanting to explain why they weren't allowed on the stage.
The group followed, and claimed that they were attacked when they were going down the steps. The video shows that this was not so.
Mr Syahrul recounts: "One of the band members tapped my shoulder and pointed to the group on the stage.
"There were six of them. I asked them to get off, and they tried to go up again.
"It was irritating because it was like they were trying to play games. So I asked one of them to go out so that I could explain why they were not allowed on the stage."
Mr Syahrul says that after they left The Boiler Room, the man tried to punch him, so he pushed him away. But three other men in the group then pounced on him.
His version is confirmed by the CCTV recording.
In The Boiler Room, at least three clubbers - two men and one woman - went onto the stage. When Mr Syahrul also went on stage to ask them to get off, they danced as they made their way down. They are also seen in later parts of the 10-minute footage.
Then more people got on the stage, out of view from the camera, and Mr Syahrul went on stage again. A second camera shows the group trooping out of The Boiler Room and into The New Paper Sports Bar next door.
Suddenly, the men surrounded Mr Syahrul and jumped on him.
He managed to push them off, and then pushed one of them, who had grabbed his hands, out of the bar. He then returned and pulled a second one out of the bar. The man stumbled but picked himself up and was made to leave.
Mr Wu Weiqiang, St James' operations manager, says the priority then was to get the customers out of the bar and away from potentially dangerous items, like glass mugs, as quickly as possible. But the fracas didn't end there.
A server at the bar, seeing that his colleague was outnumbered, called for backup, says Mr Wu. So two more security officers made their way to the bar.
They stopped one man from picking up a bar stool, and the man fell. It is not clear if he tripped or if someone pushed him.
The fracas continued outside when the group was prevented from entering the bar again. A fourth security officer then arrived.
The footage showed two security officers restraining a man who had tried to hit one of their colleagues. The rest of the group then surrounded them.
A few minutes of footage also showed the group speaking to the club's staff. A bar supervisor was also there.
Suddenly, the group attacked the staff again.
One was seen punching a security officer while the others in the group crowded around the other three security officers.
Two more security officers tried to separate the group, bringing the number of security officers involved to six.
The grainy CCTV footage showed one of the clubbers using his elbow to hit a security officer, and another looked like he was trying to kick another security officer.
It seemed that more punches were thrown until the security officers managed to restrain the four men. They were then escorted towards the Food Republic Beer Garden, outside of the camera's view. The group had alleged that this was where one staff member threw a chair at them. Mr Foo disputes that claim.
"The beer garden is 10,000 sqft. If someone can throw a chair and hit a moving target, his accuracy must be very good."
Mr Foo is infuriated that the group had the audacity to turn the tables around and make themselves appear to be the victims in the incident.
"When someone attacks you, you've got to protect yourself. That's our problem," he says.
"You can't sit there and be beaten. When you see your colleague being beaten up, do you just watch?" He defends his staff, saying that some have worked for him for a decade and that he can vouch for their character.
His staff would never start a fight because it has "no benefit to us at all", he says. How then did the group end up bloodied, as their pictures showed?
Mr Syahrul says that one of them, in an attempt to run away after finding out that the police were called, ran into the fence separating the carpark from the rest of the compound.
He adds: "Maybe when we were trying to pin them down, their faces hit the floor.
"They were aggressive and they fought back, so we had to use minimal force to restrain them." The CCTV footage of the 10-minute incident also shows one security officer rubbing his mouth as he walked back to the club's premises.
He suffered bruises, says Mr Wu, but it was nothing too serious. He didn't seek medical treatment. The men who claimed they were beaten declined to be identified when they spoke to The New Paper.
Police investigations are ongoing.
1. The band pulled them up on stage.
2. The security officer punched one of them, put him in a headlock, and his colleagues joined in. Their attempts to stop the fight resulted in another one of them being headlocked and punched too.
3. Up to 30 men attacked them, and not all were in the suits worn by the club's security of them ran around the tables at the Food Republic Beer Garden with about four security officers chasing him. One of the security men even threw a chair that hit him. They then rained punches on him after catching up with him.
4. One of them ran around the tables at the Food Republic Beer Garden with about four security officers chasing him. One of the security men even threw a chair that hit him. They then rained punches on him after catching up with him.
1. The audience is not allowed on stage, says St James.
2. As one of the rowdy clubbers follows a security officer out of The Boiler Room, he throws a punch at the security officer. The latter blocks the punch and the man falls. The security officer is then pounced on by three other men who put him in a headlock. He manages to shake them off. No one in the group is shown being put in a headlock.
3. Six security officers were involved, with one bar supervisor seen speaking to one person in the group when they were standing outside The New Paper Sports Bar. The bar supervisor did not have any physical contact with the group.
4. It is impossible for officers to chase the clubber in the Food Republic Beer Garden and throw a chair that hit him because the area is so large and there would be other patrons there too.
