Chairman of the People's Action Party (PAP), Mr Khaw Boon Wan, is the first top PAP leader to take a shot at the Workers' Party (WP) in recent days.
Hougang had previously been served by Mr Low Thia Kiang for 20 years before he had handpicked and groomed Mr Yaw Shin Leong to succeed him.
However, the single-seat constituency has been left without an MP since February, after WP expelled Mr Yaw due to allegations against him of extramarital affairs. This triggered the call for the by-election.
On Wednesday, Mr Khaw criticised the WP for its disunity and warned about what it would result in for voters, reported The Straits Times.
The National Development Minister observed that if a party constantly had members resigning due to unhappiness or being sacked, it would be very difficult for them to run a country. And should this party come into power, it would ultimately be 'very troublesome for Singapore'.
"If within the party, you cannot remain united, can you imagine if you're in power?" asked Mr Khaw. "How do you run a country?"
He explained that political parties have to remain united on a common cause.
Last week, when Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong called for a by-election, he also criticised the opposition party and former Hougang MP Yaw for letting down those who had supported him.
On Tuesday, WP veteran Poh Lee Guan was speculated to be the third candidate to join the race to be the Hougang MP.
Mr Poh, however, did not show up on nomination day.
This led to Mr Khaw saying that "it sounds very complicated. It's too complicated for us. For us, we come to politics to serve."
Mr Khaw, along with Education Minister Heng Swee Keat, a member of the PAP's Central Executive Committee, had turned up at the Nomination Centre on Wednesday to show their support for PAP candidate Desmond Choo.
Making a pitch for PAP's Mr Choo, Mr Khaw described him as an 'honest, competent man'.
Despite his loss in Hougang last year, Mr Choo had still stayed on to serve residents.
"The last general election has not daunted him, neither his fighting spirit nor his passion to serve," Mr Khaw said.
However, the minister acknowledged that PAP cannot let their guard down, and said it is still a challenge in trying to take back the WP stronghold of Hougang.
