SINGAPORE - In a strongly worded statement posted on Thursday night, City Harvest Church is disputing the allegations that the church was cheated of $50 million, claiming that the sum was repaid to the church in full with interest.
"It has been suggested that the church has been cheated of $50 million. This is not accurate," said Mr Aries Zulkarnain, the executive pastor and a founding member of the church since its start 23 years ago.
"The $24 million, which went to investment bonds, was returned to the church in full, with interest.
"We didn't lose the $24 million, nor did we lose 'another $26.6m' as alleged. The church did not lose any funds in the relevant transactions, and no personal profit was gained by the individuals concerned," he claimed.
On Wednesday, the church's founding pastor Kong Hee, 47, and four others were charged with misappropriating church funds of over $50 million in order to finance the music career of Kong's wife, Ho Yeow Sun, 42.
Speaking on behalf of the Board, Bobby Chaw, the pastor in charge of missions at CHC, said that the church has been cooperating with the Government to comply with the Ministry of Community Development, Youth and Sports (MCYS)'s code of governance.
"We replaced 50 per cent of our Board with new members. We engaged RSM Chio Lim to do a full internal audit and we have been putting their recommendations into action, and will continue to do so," he said.
He said the church was then surprised when the Commissioner of Charities (COC) suspended the members of the church without prior notice as they had been cooperating with COC for two years since the start of the case.
The church also expressed disappointment with the media coverage on the case so far.
"In some instances, they seem to have pre-judged us. We will be dealing with this in due course," Chaw said.
The church stated that the Crossover Project was not about one person's singing career, but a mission "fundamental to the congregation of CHC."
"The Crossover Project is an outreach that uses Sun Ho's singing and music to engage people and places that would never otherwise hear the Gospel," the statement said.
"As a result of the Crossover Project, many churches have grown worldwide and the faith of many has been strengthened. Impact has been made on the needy in Haiti, disaster victims in China, the depressed and suicidal in Taiwan, and the sick children in Honduras, among others."
In response to the statement, a spokesman for the Attorney-General's Chambers said that as the criminal charges have now been brought before the court, the church should not have commented on the issues, and neither should the prosecution do so.
The Straits Times reported that the police responded in a similar fashion, but added that the offence is with regards to the misappropriation of the money with the intent to deceive, regardless of whether subsequent attempts at restitution have or have not been made by the accused.
The church has stated that Kong and CHC deputy pastor Tan Ye Peng, 39, will continue to preach at the church despite the charges brought against them.
"The people currently in the news are our pastors and trusted staff and leaders who have always put God and CHC first. As a church we stand with them and I believe fully in their integrity," Mr Zulkarnain said.
