SINGAPORE - A luxury yacht that once belonged to golf legend Jack Nicklaus is making Singapore its permanent home, joining a growing handful of superyachts berthed here.
The US$11.8-million (S$14.8-million) luxury boat, which houses a museum that pays tribute to the American's phenomenal golfing career, is docked at the One Degree 15 Marina Club.
Named the Sea Bear, after Nicklaus' golf moniker Golden Bear, the 130-foot (40m) long, 50-foot (15m) tall superyacht is set to be a star attraction at the Boat Asia 2012 event from April 12 to 15 at Marina@Keppel Bay.
Ticket-holders attending the prestigious annual yacht showcase will have a rare opportunity to explore the sleek interior of the Sea Bear.
They will also get to see some of Nicklaus' major championship trophies, as well as other golfing memorabilia.
The golfer, 72, won 18 Majors over a career spanning some 40 years, and has been named Golfer of the Century and Most Powerful Person in Golf.
The luxurious tri-deck Westport yacht, which Nicklaus owned until last year, comes with an additional flybridge that offers a 360 deg view of the vessel's surroundings.
Among its many amenities are five staterooms, three bar areas, an outdoor jacuzzi and a barbecue pit.
All five staterooms are outfitted in mahogany, with a mix of plush yet comfortable furnishings.
The spacious master stateroom on the main deck comes with an attached bathroom fully equipped with two sinks, a shower area and a bathtub - a rare luxury, as most yachts lack the space for such amenities.
The two VIP staterooms and two guest state-rooms, located on the lower deck, are named after the four golfing Majors: the US Masters, the US Open, the British Open and the PGA Championship.
Pictures of Nicklaus' victories and other memorable moments adorn the walls of each room.
The Sea Bear can accommodate up to 30 guests, and up to 10 guests overnight.
It is expected to be available for public charter within the next two to three months, after its official open-water licence is approved, its manager, Aqua Voyage, told my paper.
Charter rates for the vessel are likely to be between $10,000 and $20,000, depending on the length of the voyage and the number of guests, said Ms Evelyn Yo, the director of marketing and communications at KOP Hotels and Resorts, of which Aqua Voyage is its nautical-hospitality arm.
"There has been a rise in demand for private- yacht charters from individuals who want a more unique setting to host private events and from cor- porations which want to hold meetings or entertain their key clients (on such yachts)," she said.
"We predict strong demand for the chartering of Sea Bear, not just because of its strong link with the Nicklaus name, but also because it is one of the few superyachts here which has a higher passenger capacity."
Over $30 million worth of yacht sales were tran- sacted at last year's Boat Asia event.
Some 15,000 visitors are expected at this year's event.
