SINGAPORE - The Public Accounts Committee has raised concern that lapses observed in ministries and agencies could erode public confidence in public-sector procurement.
In a report made public yesterday and submitted to Parliament on Wednesday, it added that it was concerned there was an "underlying weaknesses in public-sector procurement".
The weakness would need to be addressed at a "whole-of- Government" level, it said.
The committee said it was also worried that the lapses undermined government procurement principles of open and fair competition, transparency and value for money.
The committee is a watchdog comprising eight Members of Parliament (MPs). It tracks what government bodies have done to correct irregularities in the use of public funds.
For its latest report, the committee looked at the Auditor- General's report for the financial year from 2010 to last year.
In October last year, when the Auditor-General's report was released, several public agencies were rapped for procurement lapses. For instance, the Singapore Police Force was overcharged $885,000 for goods used in a project overseen by external contractors.
The committee noted that most of the lapses observed by the Auditor-General were for procurement, and many were reported in the last five years.
As a result, the committee sought views on this from the Ministry of Finance (MOF), as it is responsible for government procurement policies and rules.
The ministry said most of the procurement irregularities in the past five years were due to the procurement officers' "poor understanding of procurement principles, and/or their lack of familiarity with procurement rules", stated the report.
To address the issue, MOF tweaked rules and guidelines to clarify the roles of key officers in the procurement process.
MOF is also implementing additional measures, such as providing an online resource centre for procurement officers and developing checklists.
The committee suggested that MOF could consider setting up a central procurement agency.
Smaller ministries and statutory boards could use the services of the agency, especially if the management of large procurement projects is not part of their regular operations.
The committee said the central agency could also develop and retain institutional knowledge on procurement and project management, noting that officers may be rotated in the middle of a procurement project.
The report included updates from other ministries to address lapses.
Despite the report's findings, there was no "systemic failure in terms of integrity and honesty" within the ministries, said committee member Ang Hin Kee, an MP for Ang Mo Kio GRC.
He explained that the lapses occurred due to improper processes and poor management within the ministries.
"Nobody was out to cheat or lie for personal gain. There was no wilful intention on anyone's part to cheat the system."
