SINGAPORE - A woman whose divorce from her deceased was not finalised before his death may stand to gain more as a widow than a divorcee.
Madam Hou Wa Yi, 46, could possibly receive $76,576 worth of assets from Mr Yap Kiat Cheong's death, including a $14,400 lump sum maintenance awarded by a district judge in 2009 under divorce settlement proceedings.
The executors of Mr Yap's estate, who are also his niece and nephew, had last week failed in their bid to have the High Court declare the divorce as final.
In Singapore's first such reported case here, Justice Choo Han Teck said the court no longer has the power to make a divorce final after the death of one of the parties.
This ruling could possible allow Madam Hou to be entitled to part of Mr Yap's estate.
Further to the estate, Mr Yap had assets worth about $1 million, including interests in a Geylang shophouse, funds in Great Eastern Life, and shares among other items.
The couple also lived in an HDB flat in Bedok North listed in his name. He also had two properties in China, reported the paper.
The Straits Times reported that the late Mr Yap, a retired businessman had married the Shanghai-based businesswoman in September 1992. He was 59 while Madam Hou was about half his age.
In 2005, Madam Hou filed for a divorce on grounds of his unreasonable behaviour. The couple later agreed to divorce on grounds of a four-year separation, for which a decree nisi was granted in September 2006.
Divorces are usually finalised within three months of this but this couple's was not and it is unclear why, reported The Straits Times.
The proceedings were reportedly delayed as Mr yap had initially sought an order for the couple's divorce in Shanghai in 2005 to be declared valid and to rescind the Singapore decree nisi.
This was withdrawn in April 2009, reported the English daily.
The ancillary matters were concluded on November 5, 2009 and Hou appealed against the District Court's orders.
Mr Yap died in February last year at the age of 78. The appeal was adjourned part-heard by Justice Philip Pillai a month after Mr Yap's death.
But Justice Choo, in his decision released last week, said he did not express any opinion on the ancillary matters and the part-heard appeal as they were not presented as issues before him.
Madam Hou filed a court application in 2011 for maintenance for the couple's daughter. Madam Hou says their daughter was born in Shanghai in November 2003.
The Straits Times understands that Madam Hou did not mention their daughter during divorce proceedings in Singapore as she wanted the divorce to be finalised quickly and the girl was in her custody.
Under the Inheritance (Family Provision) Act, assistance can be requested from a dead man's estate to maintain his children, even if there is no mention in his will.
The case is pending.
