She came in third in the Miss Singapore Universe 2006 pageant and runs her own coaching business, which earns her more than $500,000 per annum.
Ms Genecia Luo is also ready to look for Mr Right - but she has no time to do so.
The 29-year-old is just the kind of client whom home-grown dating agency Lunch Actually is looking to attract with its new Platinum service, which targets highly affluent singles.
Touted as the first dating agency in Singapore to launch a programme that caters to the ultra-rich, membership is extended only to those who hold top-ranking executive titles in a company, or who are business owners. Each individual must earn at least $500,000 annually.
Ms Luo is looking for someone whose earnings at least matches hers, and who has ambition and drive.
"What I'm looking for is a guy who doesn't work in the same industry, someone who is grounded and 'real'," she added.
For a fee ranging from $5,000 to $20,000, Lunch Actually's Platinum members will enjoy highly personalised date-matching services.
A matchmaker will even look beyond the dating agency's data- base of clients to scout for potential partners - something few agencies do, said Ms Violet Lim, chief executive of the Lunch Actually Group.
Ms Lim noted that high-net-worth individuals tend to have limited social circles as they spend long hours at work, and are often concerned that their potential partners may be after their wealth.
Many of them also have specific requirements, she said.
For example, some seek partners who are financially savvy and who have studied in Ivy League schools.
"Among the rich, it can be a pretty small circle where everyone tends to know everyone... So they are finding it very difficult to date," she said, noting that "Singapore has the highest number of millionaires per capita in the world".
A study released this month by the Boston Consulting Group found that one in six Singapore households had investable assets of US$1 million (S$1.3 million) or more last year.
Catering to the ultra-rich could be one way to go for other dating agencies here, said Ms Betty Goh, president of the Association of Dating Agencies and Matchmakers in Singapore, and founder of dating agency Affinity.
"There (is an increasing number of) single ladies here who are high fliers, but have difficulty finding a match. This is one aspect from which demand for such an exclusive service could stem," she said.
