The wife of Mr Ma Chi, the driver who died in a traffic accident on Saturday after his red Ferrari crashed into a taxi, wants to know the identity of the woman who was in the car with him.
Lianhe Wanbao reported Sunday that the distraught wife, 29-year-old Ms Ting Ting, had asked reporters about the female passenger, who is said to be a young woman in her 20s.
She suffered from serious head injuries in the crash.
Ms Ting Ting said her husband was an introverted person who liked to drive at night as there was less traffic.
Mr Ma Chi had just returned from a trip to Hong Kong, and liked to meet up with friends after business trips.
When Ms Ting Ting learnt of the accident and that there was a young, female passenger in the car, she was surprised.
She asked who the female passenger was, and which hospital she was warded at.
However, she said she trusted her husband because he was a loving father and husband.
She also said that it was normal for someone to send a friend home after meeting up with them.
Ms Ting Ting said she did not expect such an accident to happen so soon after their wedding anniversary. She was also expecting another child.
The accident had occurred in the wee hours of Saturday at the junction of Rochor Road and Victoria Street.
It involved a red Ferrari driven by Mr Ma Chi, a taxi and a motorcycle. Two people were killed and three others were injured.
Witnesses say that the Ferrari crashed into a taxi when it ran a red light, causing the taxi to hit a passing motorcycle.
The impact was so hard that the taxi's engine was found 30m away from the vehicle, reported Shin Min Daily News.
Police and SCDF received calls about the accident at about 4.15am.
Drivers of both vehicles were trapped and had to be extricated by SCDF personnel
Mr Ma Chi, 31, was pronounced dead at the scene by the paramedics.
The female passenger in the Ferrari, in her 20s, and the cabby, in his 40s, sustained head injuries. The motorcyclist, in his 20s, sustained spinal injuries.
All three of them were sent to Tan Tock Seng Hospital.
The taxi's passenger, a 41-year-old Japanese woman, was found unconscious and died at the Singapore General Hospital, reported The Straits Times.
According to the English daily, Mr Ma first came to Singapore from Sichuan, China, four years ago with his wife and child.
Friends said he was a hard-working and righteous person who worked as a financial investor. He was also applying for permanent residency in Singapore.
Mr Ma's family members were spotted at the mortuary on Saturday morning.
His mother needed relatives to support her into the morgue and was extremely distressed. She was seen falling to the ground and crying before she entered, said Shin Min Daily News.
She kept calling out her son's name as well.
The police are investigating the accident and are appealing for eye-witnesses to call its hotline at 1800-5471818.
paullim@sph.com.sg
