A $32-million campus will soon be ready to provide customised curriculum for Normal (Technical) - or N(T) - students.
It will admit its first cohort of up to 200 Secondary 1 students in January next year and is the first of two specialised schools for N(T) students planned.
The school, named Crest Secondary School, is slated for completion in the fourth quarter of this year. It is located in Jurong East Street 24.
In subsequent years, places will be set aside for students from mainstream schools who wish to transfer in mid-stream. The school aims to have a cohort of about 800 to 900 Sec 1 to Sec 4 students by 2016.
Those details were revealed at a press conference held at the Institute of Technical Education (ITE) College West yesterday.
"We're looking at how we can conduct our curriculum very differently, so that it will be better customised to meet the learning needs of our students," said Mr Frederick Yeo, who has been appointed the school's principal.
He was formerly the principal of Bowen Secondary School.
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong announced the establishment of the two specialised schools as an additional option for pupils eligible for the N(T) course in his National Day Rally speech in 2010. The second school, located in Woodlands Drive 64, will begin its first intake in January 2014.
Crest Secondary is an independent school registered under ITE which will work closely with ITE, as well as industry partners, to provide opportunities for attachments and internships for upper secondary students.
It has already started recruiting teachers who have expressed a strong interest in working with N(T) students, and will supplement its staff strength with seconded ITE lecturers who have industry experience.
The school's four-year programme will allow students to graduate with a GCE N-level certificate in English, Mathematics and Mother Tongue Language, as well as an ITE Skills Certificate (ISC).
The ISC courses focus on four areas, namely Facility Services, Mechanical Servicing, Retail Services and Hospitality Services. The courses are based on prospective National Institute of Technical Education Certificate courses and industry areas that students can join upon graduation.
Pupils who wish to apply for a place in the school may do so if they pass the PSLE this year and have been streamed into N(T).
But, unlike other schools here, they will not be admitted by merit or on a first-come- first-served basis. Dr Cheong Wei Yang, director of the Education Ministry's Planning Division, said that recommendations from prospective students' primary-school teachers will be considered. More information on admission criteria will be released at a later date.
