INCULCATING good values in citizens can help prevent problems, said Education Minister Heng Swee Keat, who cited how littering can be avoided if people are considerate and care for the environment. He explained how the problem could also be solved easily by taxing citizens more, in order to hire more cleaners to do the job.
He said: "But is it a good idea to, say, let the Government do everything? (To) let the Government tax more people and everything will be free?"
Imposing higher taxes - as carried out in debt-ridden Greece - is not ideal in the long run, he said.
On the situation in Greece, he said: "People stopped paying taxes. They found different ways to evade taxes. The government started issuing IOUs and they incur debts. At the end of it, it is not sustainable and the country collapses."
Pointing to the high unemployment among young people in Greece, he said that it is very depressing for a young person to finish school and not be able to find a job, and not know what to do next.
Mr Heng was addressing 250 student leaders from 136 secondary schools at the first National Secondary School Student Leaders Conference at *scape yesterday.
Also present was Acting Minister for Community Development, Youth and Sports Chan Chun Sing, who also chairs the National Youth Council (NYC).
The event, organised by the Ministry of Education (MOE) and NYC, aimed to encourage students to champion the "Values in Action" (VIA) scheme beyond the confines of their schools.
The conference follows an announcement by MOE at the Committee of Supply Debate earlier this year on the reframing of the Community Involvement Programme (CIP) - which requires students to do mandatory community work - as a VIA scheme, in order to focus on the inculcation of values through community involvement.
The hall was a bustle of activity with students huddled in groups, brainstorming community-project ideas.
Proposals ranged from organising fund-raising carnivals to benefit the less fortunate, to screening videos on the big screen at Times Square in New York in order to remind overseas Singaporeans to stay rooted.
Reiterating the difference between CIP and VIA, Mr Heng said: "We want young people to reflect on the values that are involved when they do these projects. So, there is a process of reflection which will be built into the curriculum."
He added: "It is not just talking about respect, care or responsibility. It is only through action that our students learn how those values are actualised, how those values are put into action."
With the new VIA scheme, he hopes that students will take the initiative to start such projects and mobilise their fellow students to do their part for the community.
Mr Heng said: "It is very important for us to create a sense of ownership, and (for) it not to be just a set of MOE guidelines, (and) not just a national programme that everybody has to do."
Teh Su Chen, 15, a student leader from Raffles Girls' School, said that the VIA scheme has helped provide students with a "fresh feel".
The Secondary 3 student said: "Students can better understand that it is, by using the values inculcated in them through moral education, for the benefit of the community."
