THE Chinese national who was killed, after the Ferrari he had been driving fatally injured two others in Bugis, was cremated yesterday.
Mr Ma Chi, 31, a financial investor from Sichuan, was cremated at Mandai Crematorium at about 4pm after a short ceremony that was attended by close friends and family members.
Earlier at about 1pm, Mr Ma's heavily pregnant wife, Madam He Tingting, 28, dabbed away tears as she paid her last respects at his wake held at Mount Vernon Sanctuary in Upper Aljunied Road.
Madam He was then escorted by a family friend into a waiting Audi, accompanied by her four-yearold daughter and Mr Ma's mother.
She did not attend the cremation.
Nearly two hours passed before the cortege began its journey to Mandai. Those present appeared to be waiting for a man, dressed in black, who arrived in a taxi shortly after 3pm.
While the man's relationship with Mr Ma is not clear, he arrived with a suitcase, passport and a boarding pass in his hands.
He appeared to be in his late 20s and wore a black pair of jeans and a matching T-shirt. Family and friends refused to speak with the media.
Mr Ma was behind the wheel of the red Ferrari when it drove past the junction of Rochor Road and Victoria Street last Saturday morning.
His car collided with a taxi which then hit a motorcycle. Mr Ma was pronounced dead at the scene. The taxi driver, Mr Cheng Teck Hock, 52, was declared brain-dead and died on Sunday at 7pm.
The taxi's passenger, a 41-year-old Japanese woman, died last Saturday morning at Singapore General Hospital.
Her brother and two friends claimed her body yesterday. Chinese evening newspaper Lianhe Wanbao identified her as Ms Ito Shigemi.
The motorcyclist, Mr Muhammad Najib Ghazali, 25, suffered a dislocated arm, fractured rib and spinal injuries.
The passenger in Mr Ma's Ferrari, a Chinese national in her 20s, suffered serious injuries including a fractured leg and is now in a stable condition. She is believed to be a nightclub hostess, reported Chinese newspaper Shin Min Daily News.
Both survivors are warded at Tan Tock Seng Hospital.
It is understood that Mr Ma's ashes will be flown back to his hometown in Sichuan.
