CONCERN over unequal job opportunities for Singaporeans was the top complaint received by the Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices (Tafep) last year.
The top complaints related to discrimination are usually linked to nationality, language, race and age.
In its 2011 Annual Review, Tafep said the total number of complaints rose to 277 last year, from 115 in 2010.
Tafep has approached more than 100 employers over allegations of discrimination based on nationality, Mr Tan Chuan-Jin, Minister of State for Manpower and National Development, said yesterday.
This was after enhancements to the Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices last October, to provide a level playing field for Singaporeans, such as by ensuring that all advertised jobs are open to them.
At yesterday's fourth annual conference on fair employment practices at Resorts World Sentosa, Mr Tan said concerns include those related to job advertisements stating a preference for foreigners, and foreign supervisors favouring their own countrymen.
He added that all reported discriminatory job advertisements were subsequently removed and, in two cases, the employers were warned by the Ministry of Manpower.
Other complaints related to nationality include allegations of employers purposely speaking a different language, employees having to eat separately and receiving condescending remarks.
It is important for companies to hire on the basis of merit and to tap into a diverse talent market, said Mr Tan. "We want...to see Singaporeans who want to work (being) able to provide for themselves and their families," he said.
"They must not be denied the chance to work because of bias at the workplace."
He added that many Singaporeans recognise the need to be open to foreigners for the economy to stay competitive, but warned that "it is a question of degree and extent".
For firms to stay competitive and generate jobs for Singaporeans, "it is important to get the balance right", he said.
"Most critically, Singaporeans must be able to operate on a level playing field."
