His parents had hopes of him clinching a government scholarship, but Mr Marcus Cheng took an alternative route.
Three years ago, the 32-year-old founded Acclivis Technologies and Solutions, an IT company, together with two partners.
Within its first year of operation, the company reaped an annual revenue of $15 million.
Last year, this figure jumped to $22 million.
Starting his own business has always been "at the back of his mind" since his university days, says this father of two toddlers, aged two and four.
After graduating from Nanyang Technological University in 2005, he joined IBM, where, as a sales specialist, he sold IT hardware and software solutions to enterprises.
Four years later, he took the plunge to become his own boss.
He is glad he started young.
Mr Cheng, whose partners are both in their 40s, says being just past 30 years old has its advantages.
High energy level is something he is grateful for - working for 24 hours without sleep is still a feat he can manage when there are important tenders to submit.
"I think when you're younger you're also more in tune with the IT generation, which is key for someone in my position.
"Responding quickly via the Blackberry and e-mails is also something I don't have to take too much time to get used to," he says.
Still, starting out on his own was a risky move, especially because he was leaving a relatively stable job at an established MNC.
He also had a wife and young son to support.
"I remember the day I did the exit interview at IBM, then walked across the road to our tiny 1,500 sqft office.
"It was a bit surreal. I don't think I would have been able to do it without my wife's support," says Mr Cheng.
Acclivis supplies the needs of enterprises, from data management to backup and disaster recovery. The early months were fraught with challenges, he says.
"The IBM badge was suddenly taken away and we had to talk to clients who did not even know how to pronounce our company name.
Hiring the right people was also not an easy task, says this vivacious and straight-talking man.
"I remember at some interviews I conducted, I almost had to sell them the job," Mr Cheng says jokingly.
"We were a small start-up, and our office was in Changi. Some didn't want the job because they had to travel so far."
Fortunately, business mentors came his way to help him through the hard times, he says.
The company, now headquartered in the Paya Lebar area, employs about 80 people and has a branch in Indonesia.
It can be lonely at the top, confesses Mr Cheng, who often has take-out lunches at his desk. And the pressure can be a bit suffocating.
"If the company makes a mistake or overlooks a certain aspect, you really feel it more than everyone else," he says.
But there are perks to being a boss.
Mr Cheng says: "As an employee, some of your ideas will be met with resistance.
"But as a boss, you have greater say in pushing your ideas into reality. And when those ideas work, there's a tremendous sense of satisfaction."
AGE: 32
BUSINESS: IT
REVENUE: $22m
