The 16 finalists of my paper's fifth annual Executive 2012 contest are exceptionally driven individuals.
It was thus no surprise that the contestants - who will face off during the grand finals at The Lawn@Marina Bay tomorrow - were extremely focused at a rehearsal on Tuesday.
The 16 had gathered at Singapore Press Holdings' (SPH's) auditorium, and the mood was tense as they went through their paces in stage choreography.
"The choreography is the most challenging part of the competition for me. I'm not as nervous about the possibility of entering the 'firing squad' rounds," said Mr Fabien Bonabaud, 37, a senior banking auditor at BNP Paribas.
The "firing squad" segment is where the top five finalists will answer questions related to work life and ethics. Topics will range from office politics to workplace equality.
The finalists will face a panel of personalities comprising SPH journalists, as well as personalities from SPH's radio and online sections.
Some execs have already devised strategies in view of the nerve-racking possibility of facing that lot.
"I'm going to treat the 'firing squad' like a casual chat with my good friends, if I get to that point. It's about being frank and composed," said Mr Chua Wei Loon, 31, a sales manager at Suntech Door &amp; Shutters.
The finalists will be assessed on factors such as their wit and communication skills.
When asked what they are doing to prepare for the big day - with the top prize of $10,000 at stake - most finalists said they don't want to over-prepare, lest they come off as being too rehearsed.
Spontaneity is the name of the game for 30-year-old Marcus Royce Lee.
The consultant at aAdvantage Consulting Group, who will be the first contestant to walk onstage, joked that "I'll probably drink some Red Bull before I hit the stage tomorrow".
For former SingTel grid girl and analyst at Westpac Private Bank Assumpta Sim, 29, the key to overcoming her nerves is simple.
"I'm just going to be myself and, hopefully, people will like me for who I am. To me, that's what this competition is about," she said.
tongjh@sph.com.sg
