This Primary 1 boy does mathematics problems meant for Secondary 1 students without batting an eyelid.
At just seven years old, George Yeo, with an IQ of 130, is one of the youngest members in Mensa Singapore.
The high-IQ society members are mostly between the ages of 18 and 35.
The average IQ - intelligence quotient - is 100.
When asked why he joined Mensa, George just blinks owlishly from behind his glasses and says in a matter-of-fact tone: "Because I have a high IQ."
His IQ exceeds about 98 per cent of children his age.
George joined the organisation in the middle of last year, when he was six years old.
His father, Mr Yeo Kee Lin, 46, explains: "We were actually holding back at first, because there was no purpose or advantage.
"But last year, his K2 teacher told us George wasn't paying attention in class. He already knew everything they were being taught, so he was getting bored."
Mr Yeo says that at 10 months, George could already recognise letters and at 21 months, he could read from A-Z and count up to 20, and in tens after that.
In Nursery 1, at three years old, he was already reading while other children were still struggling to learn their letters and numbers.
When George was four, he told his parents he didn't want to go to school any more.
"Don't waste your money," he told them. "I already know everything."
His parents kept him in school to build his social skills, but got him accelerated learning worksheets to challenge him with at home.
Even though this boy wonder can't skip grades easily in the school system, his parents don't mind.
"We want him to play more, and to learn teamwork. School is important for building character, not just knowledge," says Mr Yeo, a company director.
His wife Madam Maria Yan, 44, is a banking officer.
George is their only child.
The Anglo-Chinese School (Junior) student juggles fractions confidently and he loves algebra most " because they try to use letters to trick us. But they can't trick me."
George is apparently also quick with the ladies.
Says Mr Yeo with a laugh: "Even when he was two, whenever we got into a lift with a young lady, he would make conversation. When it's an old aunty, he won't even look at her."
George tells this reporter cheekily: "Let me tell you something: saranghaeyo (I love you in Korean)."
IQ of 130
Recognised alphabet at 10 months
Does Sec 1 maths at Pri 1
