Singtel subscribers are the first in Singapore to be able to experience fourth-generation, or 4G, services on their smartphones, starting today - without having to fork out any additional charges.
However, for new and re-contracting subscribers, the telco giant will cut the size of the data bundle it offers across all its subscription plans, with effect from July 1.
For example, subscribers of its most basic Flexi Lite plan will see their data bundle drop from 12GB to a maximum of 2GB. However, they will be compensated with more free local SMSes, up from 550 to 800.
Those under the Flexi Premium plan will be the ones most affected, with their data bundles cut from 30GB to 12GB. But they will be able to enjoy 2,500 SMSes, instead of the current 2,000. Additionally, SingTel has tweaked its charges for excess data usage, which currently stands at $2.76 for every extra 1MB.
It has now been revised to S$5.35 for each extra GB used, but will increase to $10.70 next year. Total excess charges will be capped at $94 each month.
These changes will come into effect starting from July 1 and will affect only new and re-contracting subscribers.
The move is to eliminate data-hogs who log on to the network for a long time and take up bandwidth simply because they know they have a high cap, said Mr Yuen Kuan Moon, SingTel's chief executive officer of consumer business in Singapore.
SingTel found that just 10 per cent of its subscribers are responsible for 64 per cent of the traffic on its network, slowing down the experience for the remaining users.
Said Mr Yuen: "The traditional one-size-fits-all approach is not sustainable in the long term. With our tiered pricing model, subscribers pay for what they use, and this allows us to keep prices for our plans the same over time, despite rising network costs."
He added that 90 per cent of SingTel's subscribers are not expected to incur higher charges, as their data consumption does not exceed that provided under the new bundles.
The newly launched 4G service will enable subscribers to surf the Internet on their smartphones up to five times quicker than on existing 3G-based services. For example, a 3min 45sec high definition video on YouTube may take 3:10 to load and start streaming on the current 3G network, but this will be cut to just 2:32 with 4G.
SingTel's 4G network now covers about 50 per cent of Singapore, including the central business district, Orchard, Ang Mo Kio, Changi and Jurong East.
The coverage will be gradually extended to 80 per cent of the island by December, and is expected to encompass the whole of Singapore by early next year.
In response to queries from my paper, telcos M1 and StarHub said they are looking to roll out their own 4G services by the fourth quarter of this year.
reicow@sph.com.sg
