Busy parents who lack the time to get involved in their children's development - that was one of the key factors leading to Singapore being ranked 29th out of 45 countries, in a study on early education released yesterday.
The inaugural Starting Well Index (SWI) - which ranked preschool education in 45 countries on categories like availability, affordability and quality - found that Singapore performed worst in areas related to quality.
These included factors like pupil- teacher ratio, parent involvement and preschool teacher training and pay.
Dr Khoo Kim Choo, founder and director of the Preschool for Multiple Intelligences, said that low parental involvement could be due to "parents having no time due to work".
She suggested that employers should give parents "some time off so that they can be more involved in their child's education".
Singapore was "average" when it came to having affordable preschool education, and had high levels of preschool enrolment.
The study also found that, while teacher quality was found to be acceptable - new teachers here need at least five O-level credits and a diploma in preschool education - there was a lack of teachers and high turnover in the industry.
This meant that, in contrast to the top 10 countries in the index, which had ratios of one teacher to five to 11 children, Singapore had one teacher to 20 children.
Dr Khoo suggested that Singapore could "attract and retain more good preschool teachers with better incentives".
The study noted that Nordic countries did the best in early childhood education, with Finland (1st), Sweden (2nd) and Norway (3rd) topping the ranking.
The only Asian country that made the top 10 was South Korea (10th). Hong Kong (19th) and Japan (21st) were also ranked better than Singapore.
Despite Singapore's primary, secondary and tertiary education being lauded as models to follow, early education here seemed to be falling behind, the study noted.
The chief executive of the Lien Foundation, Mr Lee Poh Wah, said that "if there was a weak link in our national education system, the preschool phase would be it".
The research for this report was carried out from December last year to March this year. It defined preschool education as that for children aged three to six.
