More action needs to be taken quickly by the Government to combat human trafficking in Singapore, a migrant-worker rights group urged yesterday.
Transient Workers Count Too said at a media briefing that the country's current law omits parts of the definition for human trafficking, as spelt out in a 2000 United Nations (UN) protocol.
The protocol looks into preventing, suppressing and punishing trafficking in persons.
Mr John Gee, the immediate past president of the migrant-workers' non-governmental organisation (NGO), said: "These (trafficking) issues can't be tackled by legal means unless they are recognised in law."
He said that once the various forms of human trafficking, involving coercion and deception, are recognised and the principle expressed in the UN protocol is adopted, "that gives a legal framework for treating trafficked people as victims, rather than primarily as people who stay in Singapore illegally".
He noted that public agencies have taken part of the protocol only as an operational guideline for anti-trafficking work.
On why he thinks the UN protocol's trafficking definition has not yet been adopted here, Mr Gee said: "The Government would be wary of opening the gates to claims that a substantial proportion of migrant workers here are trafficked, which might have economic consequences and might be seen to reflect badly on Singapore."
Singapore remains a Tier 2 country in the latest Trafficking In Persons Report by the United States Department of State, released last week. Tier 2 countries refer to countries that do not fully comply with minimum international standards of protecting migrant workers from forced labour, or other forms of trafficking in persons.
In response to last year's edition of the US report, Singapore's Inter-agency Taskforce on Trafficking in Persons launched the National Plan of Action in March.
Mr Tan Chuan-Jin, Minister of State for National Development and Manpower, said in March: "The (plan)...will strengthen current policies and processes, as well as develop new ones to address gaps."
On the plan, Mr Gee said: "A good start has been made, but the process of implementing the (plan) is rather long.
"The aim should be to bring in a steady flow of changes as problem areas are studied and resolved."
