SINGAPORE - Immigration in Singapore is not just about the numbers, but also about the quality of immigrants, said Acting Minister for Community Development, Youth and Sports Chan Chun Sing yesterday.
Mr Chan said: "We try to attract people who are of high quality because we (want to) sustain a positive momentum."
This point was also raised by Professor David Chan, director of the Behavioural Sciences Institute at the Singapore Management University, at a conference by the Institute of Policy Studies.
Prof Chan said Singapore should not be overly fixated on determining the optimal absolute number of immigrants to take in.
Instead, the country should focus on addressing integration issues which rear their heads, he said.
"The number of immigrants matter and we cannot afford not to pay any attention to this...but we need to ask what kind of society we want as a country.
"The end has to be citizens' well-being and national interest - and these need to be defined more clearly."
This was not lost on Mr Chan, who emphasised at the start of his 11/2-hour dialogue session during the conference that the Government's primary concern is to provide meaningful opportunities to Singaporeans to do "what they want".
He also addressed questions in response to a recent article by Professor Tommy Koh - chairman, Centre for International Law and rector, Tembusu College, National University of Singapore - on lessons Singapore can learn from the Nordic countries.
In the article published in The Straits Times last Saturday, Prof Koh also touched on the total fertility rate (TFR), income inequality and labour productivity.
Addressing a question on the discrepancy in wages between low-wage earners in Singapore and those in the Nordic countries, Mr Chan suggested that the standard of living there was much higher than in Singapore.
He also pointed out that, to emulate the Nordic countries would entail making social choices.
For instance, Nordic women may bear children out of wedlock, which leads to one more birth on average when calculating TFR, he added.
While some lessons might be gleaned, it ultimately boils down to a "social choice that we as a society have to grapple" with, Mr Chan said.
