Hougang belongs to residents, not to a political party, said People's Action Party (PAP) candidate Desmond Choo yesterday.
Speaking to the ward's residents at a PAP rally for the Hougang by-election held at Hougang Stadium last night, Mr Choo said: "Hougang belongs to you. Hougang can never be taken away from you.
"Hougang doesn't belong to the Workers' Party (WP) and neither does it belong to PAP."
Mr Choo, 34, added that voters had the power to exercise a free choice to decide who "can best identify with your hopes, concerns and dreams".
Identifying himself with the ward, he said that its residents "are my family".
"I just cannot leave you guys behind. When I see my residents needing help, I cannot walk away," he said.
Yesterday's rally was the second one, after the WP's, held last Saturday at an open field in Hougang Central.
Among the seven speakers at the PAP rally was Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean.
Mr Teo, who is a Member of Parliament for Pasir Ris-Punggol GRC, said a by-election is not required to discuss national issues.
He said that there has been talk about whether the by-election is "about national or local issues".
"Certainly, national issues deserve discussion, and are being addressed," said Mr Teo, who is also the PAP's first assistant secretary-general.
"We don't need a by-election to discuss such issues, and Members of Parliament of all parties have already been discussing these issues in Parliament. A by-election does not change this."
Mr Teo also said that residents knew the by-election, to be held on May 26, was not called "over some national issue".
He urged voters to elect the right person, and said that if they vote in the wrong person, "he will not serve you well, he will embarrass you as the voters, the Parliament and our country".
On WP secretary-general Low Thia Khiang's comment last Saturday about how Mr Teo was trying to "sell" Mr Choo, Mr Teo said that there was no need for him to sell Mr Choo as "his actions speak for themselves".
Yesterday, Mr Choo reiterated the various community programmes in Hougang that he said he had started on his own without seeking help from the Government.
Noting that he had worked hard to get private sponsors and donors, he said he was not a good speaker and preferred to let his actions do the talking.
Meanwhile, the WP's candidate, Mr Png Eng Huat, 50, went on the campaign trail yesterday morning.
He visited a coffee shop at Hougang Avenue 7 and the Hougang Neighbourhood Park, speaking to residents and handing out campaign fliers.
