The bride in her white gown and her dashing groom - a picture of perfection.
What the wedding guests don't see is the nightmare that sometimes lies behind that special day.
"You'd be surprised at the kind of things that go on behind the scenes," says this veteran wedding planner repeatedly with a slow shake of her head. Annie, who is in her late 30s, declined to reveal her full name because she says it can reveal the identity of her clients.
She has seen it all, from jealous bridesmaids to fuming in-laws.
Money is usually the cause of family tension and feuds, says Annie, who has been in the business for about a decade and runs her own firm.
Coordinators like her typically charge between $3,500 and $10,000 per wedding to do anything from tying ribbons onto the bridal car to drawing up the day's itinerary. She reveals that her rates climb steeply once she encounters would-be clients who are picky from the start and hence, potentially difficult to work with.
"When they look nasty or picky, I mark up the price to double my original quote - so that they'd be turned off, and I might not get the job.
"If they still want me, at least I'll have extra money for a facial or psychotherapy,"she jokes.
She recalls a particularly nasty experience where a couple wanted to pull out all the stops for their big day, but had no money to pay for the frills.
For instance, the bride loved the flower arrangements but her in-laws were adamant that flowers be cut out from the decor.
Annie found out later from a hotel manager that the groom was feeling the heat from his demanding bride.
"He told the manager in a man-to-man talk that the bride was 'bleeding him dry'."
In another meeting with the couple, the bride said, 'maybe I will retain you as a wedding planner, but perhaps I will get another groom'.
She reveals that yet another couple, both children of wealthy parents, still owe her money - and it's been a year since their wedding.
"Their family homes were quite luxurious and lavish. The couple were not quite rich. Yet they really wanted to spend.
"They still owe me $7,000, which I paid on their behalf to the vendors."
These days, she makes sure couples pay in full before the wedding day.
"It's not that I don't trust them, I've just learnt to be smarter about some things," she adds with a chuckle.
She works on two weddings a month on average. It may sound like it's fun, or even glamorous, but Annie says she has been made to feel like a servant. She says a "diva" couple made her wait for them in the rain for two hours.
"We were supposed to meet at their apartment and there was nowhere to sit outside it.
"They didn't even have the courtesy to call. I had to text them to find out they were shopping," she says, adding that the amount they paid her was a mere $1,800.
Back then, she had just started out in the industry and was willing to accept lower rates, she explains.
Bridal couples are not the only ones who act like prima donnas.
When the topic of jealous bridesmaids comes up, this planner says, "don't get me started".
"I had one who called the bride at 9pm before the big day, throwing a hissy fit that her dress would not fit.
"She said it was so bad she could not take a picture of herself in it, even to show us.
"The bride was so distressed by this friend that we both had to go down to the bridesmaid's place to placate her," she says.
"It's not even their big day. But some of them are so self-centred, they stress the bride out."
Then there are the sneaky tricks bridesmaids get up to so that their friends don't shine too bright.
"We were at a gown fitting and it was clear that the dress the bride had on simply did not suit her.
"Yet the bridesmaid kept insisting it looked gorgeous. It's either she had really, really, bad taste or she was making sure her friend didn't look too good." Wedding planning may not always be a happy affair, but Annie insists she is lucky to do this for a living.
Still, there are sacrifices to make. Almost every weekend is spent attending to clients, so attending family functions is a rare treat for this singleton.
She frequently gets asked at the weddings she plans when it will be her turn to tie the knot.
"I just laugh it off and tell them, I'm too busy planning your son or daughter's wedding to get married.
"Why don't you help me find someone suitable?"
Tips:
1. Potential clients who start driving hard bargains at your first appointment are trouble. To avoid working with them, mark up your prices.
2. Don't ever let your emotions show, no matter how you feel inside. In this line, referrals are the main way to keep the business going, so offending a client will not do any good to your reputation.
3. Always keep a bridal emergency kit. Annie has tape for fake eyelashes, disposable underwear, tampons, and oil blotters among other useful things.
