Two sets of grandparents, united in their love for their grandson, have become mortal enemies.
A spat over the arrangements for the care of the 13-month-old boy turned into an all-out brawl.
Heated words were exchanged, kicks were thrown, and even hot coffee was used as a weapon in the tussle for the toddler.
The fight unfolded in front of stunned bystanders at a Woodlands void deck on April 28.
On one side, paternal grandparents Mr Ang, a lorry driver, 44, and his wife, 41, allege that the toddler had been snatched from their care.
On the other side is the boy's maternal grandmother, Madam Yong, 44.
The boy's mother, Ms Goh, 22, claims the Angs rained blows on her mother's head as she held onto the boy. Her neck was also hurt.
We are not using their full names as it may lead to the identification of the boy.
Ms Goh, an auxiliary police officer, told The New Paper over the phone last night: "I feel so bad for giving my mum so much trouble. I was the one who asked her to look after my son and this is what happened."
She is adamant that her mother would be the one in charge of her son's care, not her in-laws.
Ms Goh is unable to look after her son all the time as her job requires her to be in camp on weekdays.
She is estranged from her husband, 23, who was arrested for suspected loan-shark activities late last month.
Ms Goh said that their October 2010 marriage had been rocky from the start.
The couple, who met online, initially lived with Madam Yong but later moved in with the man's parents after their son was born.
Ms Goh claimed her husband beat her three times when she was pregnant. Her mother advised her to take a personal protection order against him.
That led to bad blood between both families.
The Angs said the couple had attended counselling as they would sometimes assault each other during arguments.
They also accuse Ms Goh of being a spendthrift and allege that she was incapable of looking after her son properly.
On April 28, Ms Goh messaged her mother-in-law to pick up her son from the couple's Chong Pang flat. They had moved into the one-room flat in January.
Mrs Ang replied that she was busy and would do so later.
Said Ms Goh: "Since she always complained that I didn't look after my child properly and they have their own lives to lead, I decided to get my mother to take care of him instead."
So she sent Mrs Ang an SMS about her decision.
Her mother-in-law got so upset that she threatened to call the police, Ms Goh said.
But she ignored the threat and left her son with her mother.
After Ms Goh booked into camp that night, Madam Yong returned to her Woodlands flat with the toddler.
Then, the Angs turned up.
At the void deck, Mrs Ang and Madam Yong argued over who would take care of the toddler.
Both women then started pushing each other.
Mrs Ang claimed that Madam Yong yelled at her and kicked her as they tussled over the toddler.
Said Mr Ang: "I ran over to hug my grandson, but she (Madam Yong) refused to let go. Her male friend even threw two packets of hot coffee at us."
By then, Mrs Ang had grabbed the boy. He was unhurt, but she was scalded on her back.
The Angs filed a police report after the incident. They later handed the boy back to Ms Goh, who is now determined to divorce her husband.
She said: "They waylaid my mother and beat her up... I don't want my son to grow up in that kind of environment."
The Angs, meanwhile, are waiting for their son to be released from jail before discussing their next step.
Added Mrs Ang: "Of course I'm sad. I'm the one who bathed my grandson and watched over him. I was the one bringing him home from infant care. He calls me Ah Ma.
"When I miss him, I'll distract myself with household chores or go online."
