The newlywed couple who died in the New Zealand highway crash last week had made many plans for their life together.
They would have moved into their new four-room HDB flat in Sengkang next year and the pitter-patter of tiny feet in their new matrimonial home was pretty much also on their minds.
Those dreams lay shattered last Friday, when Mr Mohamed Najibullah Suhaimi and Ms Raihana Mohd Rashid died after the car they were travelling in collided with a campervan on State Highway 2 near Mangatawhiri, south of Auckland.
The crash occurred at around 1.20pm local time, on one of the country's deadliest stretches of road - 30 deaths have been reported there since 2001.
Ms Raihana's elder brother, Mr Muhd Ridhwan Mohd Rashid, 27, a site supervisor, told my paper yesterday: "They were planning a lot. They were planning to get a flat, trying to settle down."
Mr Najibullah's elder sister, Ms Sabah-zia Mohd Suhaimi, 38, told my paper that he adored children and the couple were planning to have kids.
Mr Najibullah, 26, a lieutenant in the Singapore Armed Forces, and Ms Raihana, 25, a staff nurse at KK Women's and Children's Hospital, had left for New Zealand last Monday and originally planned to return yesterday.
The couple were supposed to go back to the bride's family in Tampines where they will live while they waited for their new flat, built under the Design, Build and Sell Scheme.
The high-school sweethearts met in Junyuan Secondary School in Tampines, but started dating only two years ago, said Ms Sabah-zia.
They were married in an elaborate military-style wedding just two days before arriving in New Zealand.
Little would their family members know that the wedding dinner would be the last time the couple would have a meal with them.
Mr Najibullah was the youngest of three children while Ms Raihana was the second of five children, in their respective families.
The trip was, in many ways, significant to the couple. Mr Najibullah had wanted to try bungee- jumping, Ms Sabah-zia, told my paper.
As for Ms Raihana, it was her first time travelling so far from Singapore - the farthest she had gone to was Ipoh, Malaysia, with Mr Najibullah after their engagement last December, according to Chinese evening paper Shin Min Daily News.
Mr Muhd Ridhwan remembered feeling happy for the couple when he learnt of their honeymoon plans in New Zealand.
"It was a private moment for them...she was happy to go anywhere with him," he said.
The last time Ms Raihana spoke to her family was when she called last Friday, just hours before the crash.
Her father, Mr Mohd Rashid Abu Bakar, 57, said: "She asked me where I was. She asked me to take care of myself and not to forget to take my medicine, and sent her regards."
The last Mr Najibullah's family heard from him was last Thursday morning, when he called his mother, Madam Julaiha Ismail, 64.
He had wanted to let her know that he was having a fantastic time and asked her not to worry, said Ms Sabah-zia, in a teary interview with the NZ Herald News. She described her brother as the baby of the family.
The remains of the couple are expected to be flown back to Singapore today.
Said Ms Sabah-zia: "We are in a very confused state of mind."
