Senior citizens showed off their singing talent at the Life Matters exhibition organised by Singapore Press Holdings' CATS Classified.
They were taking part in the semi-finals of the "Golden Voices" singing contest for those aged 50 years and above.
The oldest semi-finalist was 74 years old and the youngest was 53.
Performers sang either in English or in Mandarin.
Among them was Abdul Rahman Ghani, 61, who sang "Quando Quando Quando", that moved judge Rahimah Rahim to say: "You sing like Michael Buble. I like the way you entertain. I like the way you dance."
Rahimah Rahim and fellow celebrity-judge Huang Qingyuan were impressed by the 20 semi-finalists, who were selected from the 160 participants who auditioned.
Eight contestants were eventually selected to go through to tomorrow's final, where the winner will walk away with $2,000 cash and a trophy.
"They were good! I want to give special credit to the Chinese singers, because they really dressed up to perform and worked at presenting themselves well. I really enjoyed that, and found it nice to watch", remarked Ms Rahimah on the quality of the semi-finalists.
"The entertainment value was good, and it certainly attracted the crowd at this event", added Mr Huang.
Both celebrity judges will also perform on stage tomorrow (May 6, Sunday) after the Golden Voices final, which starts from 2pm.
Other happenings on the first day of Life Matters included the "Fill This Space" coffin-art competition, where 23 shortlisted contestants created art for coffins on the spot, based on the designs they had submitted to CATS Classified earlier.
The top three designs will be announced at the event tomorrow, and the top three winners will receive cash prizes of $2,000, $1,000 and $800.
The three winning designs will be scanned, enlarged and laminated onto coffins provided by Singapore Casket at a later date.
The coffins will then be donated to hospices affiliated with Singapore Casket.
The youngest contestant was 10-year-old Melissa Mak (pictured below) , who used crayons to design her coffin art.
Visitors were also treated to various activities including a morning exercise session conducted by the Health Promotion Board, and K Pop (pictured below) and line dance performances by the People's Association Interest Group.
Visitors also visited the 39 booths at the Life Matters exhibition, which offered all kinds of useful products and services for active agers, such as will-writing, and hearing aids.
The exhibition also included a section where visitors could speak to funeral directors and representatives from a columbarium.
Visitors who spend at least $40 at the exhibition can enter a buyers' draw for a chance to win an "11-day Turkey Rendezvous for 2" Chan's World Holidays package worth $5,000, and redeem a CATS Classified flask worth $19.90.
Visitors can also take part in hourly visitors' draws from 12pm to 7pm, and redeem various goodies and freebies.
Life Matters is sponsored by Nirvana Memorial Garden, the Health Promotion Board and Singapore Casket.
The last day of the event is tomorrow.
For more information, please visit www.cats.com.sg/LifeMatters
Opening hours: 10am to 8pm. Venue: Suntec Convention Hall 402. Admission is free.
