SINGAPORE - Singapore has shown growth as an arbitration hub, said Law and Foreign Affairs Minister K Shanmugam on Sunday.
He was speaking at the Ministry of Law's Arbitration Dialogue 2012 at the Maxwell Chambers, where it hosted a gathering of eminent international arbitrators and arbitration counsel to discuss developments in Singapore's arbitration landscape and the recent enhancements made to the Singapore International Arbitration Act (IAA).
Mr Shanmugam shared the government's strategy for developing Singapore as a regional arbitration centre, and discussed Singapore's recent successes in raising its international profile.
He said that the number of new cases handled by the Singapore Internation Arbitration Centre (SIAC) has risen from 58 in 2000 to 188 in 2011, and added that the "growth of the arbitration sector has occured in tandem with the liberalisation of the legal services sector."
Participants in the dialogue observed that investor-state arbitrations are mostly conducted in Washington, DC, and Europe. They suggested that Singapore is wellpositioned to become the leading centre for investor-state arbitrations in Asia, given its success as a centre for commercial arbitrations.
Other issues discussed included allowing parties to expand or reduce their rights of appeal against an arbitral award, and the extent to which arbitral institutions should be able to consolidate related arbitrations.
In his speech, Mr Shanmugam attributed Singapore's success as an arbitration hub to five main factors.
He accredited the success to a supportive legislative framework in the form of the International Arbitration Act (IAA), which is built on Model Law, and a commercially experienced Judiciary, which has developed a pro-arbitration jurisprudence.
Singapore's neutral venue, straddling the East and the West, has also given us an advantage, along with our connectivity to the rest of the region and the world. He also lauded the Government's efforts in actively consulting industry partners and in being swift in responding by amending laws and policies.
