Students of Catholic Junior College (CJC) may be greeted by the sight of a new school crest at their school entrance by the end of the year .
Its principal, Mrs Christine Kong, said that a survey has been sent out via e-mail to all stakeholders and alumni to gather feedback on some proposed changes, the most significant of which is the replacement of the dove in the CJC crest with a flame.
The flame, an icon of CJC, is on collar pins worn by students as part of their school uniforms. The colour of the crest may also be changed from brown to blue.
CJC alumni say the current crest has been unchanged since the junior college started in 1975. Their responses to the proposed changes were mixed.
An alumnus of the school, Miss Grace Chan, 21, who saw the survey link on social networking site Twitter, said: "I don't think there is a need to change the logo (school crest). What's wrong with the current logo anyway?"
The second-year economics major at the Nanyang Technological University said: "The school tradition will be ruined and the alumni will lose our sense of belonging to the school."
Another CJC alumnus, Mr Nurhisyam Noorzailan, said he is "pretty much against it (changing the crest)".
The 21-year-old, who is waiting to start at university, said: "If we change it (the crest), people are going to think that CJC is a new school when it is not."
It seems that the most vocal critics of the change are the school's recent graduates.
Miss Jacqueline Bong, 18, who graduated from CJC last year, said she echoes most of her friends' views.
Said Miss Bong, who is waiting to enter university: "My dad was from CJC too and when he first brought me to the school, he pointed to the logo and said proudly that nothing has changed.
"We used to make jokes about the dove (on the crest) all the time. Now, I feel like I'm going back home (CJC), but to something foreign and distant."
Others, like Madam Donna Distant, 41, are more accepting of the proposed changes.
Said the accounts manager, who graduated from CJC in 1989: "I need to find out the reasons behind it (the change). If the reasons are valid, I'll accept it."
An ex-principal of CJC, Brother Paul Rogers, who helmed the school from 2002 to 2009, has expressed his support for the new school crest.
The ex-principal, who is in Melbourne, Australia, told TNP: "It's a good idea. I think it is time to look at some changes. Anytime there is change, people are bound to be unhappy."
Several current students of CJC The New Paper spoke to said they were unaware of the proposal.
Said a JC2 student, who requested anonymity: "I found out (about the changes) only through Facebook. All my friends are talking about it now. Most of them are unhappy with the changes and are questioning why."
Despite their reservations about the proposed changes, the CJC alumni TNP spoke to said they would still support the school's final decision.
Said Miss Chan: "I would not stop supporting CJC even if the school crest is changed. I consider it as my home, so no matter what happens, I'll still support it."
THE addition of a torch, along with other modifications to the school crest of Dunman Secondary School, sparked outrage among its alumni in 2008.
The old boys and girls of the school signed a petition then to retain the previous school crest that had been in use for more than 30 years, but their efforts to fight the change were futile.
It is not the first time that schools have undergone such "make-overs" here. And there have been different reasons for the changes.
Schools merge or are renamed for affiliation purposes.
St Michael's School was renamed St Joseph's Institution (SJI) Junior in 2007 and adopted the school crest and school song of SJI.
Similarly, Serangoon Garden South Primary School "disappeared" when it merged with Zhonghua Primary School in 2007 and took Zhonghua's name.
