POLICE must invest in the right people with the right qualities. But even with the best officers and training, mistakes may still be made occasionally, said Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean.
Still, it would be unacceptable to keep making the same mistakes, as the public would lose confidence in the police, added Mr Teo, who is also Coordinating Minister for National Security and Minister for Home Affairs.
"The public may be able to accept that genuine mistakes can happen in spite of an officer's best efforts, and I will accept it too," he explained.
But he cautioned that the public "will not tolerate us repeating the same mistake".
Mr Teo was speaking at the opening of the annual Singapore Police Force Workplan Seminar yesterday.
Held at the Home Team Academy, the opening was attended by about 800 guests, including police officers and community leaders.
Mr Teo stressed that it was important for the police to keep ahead of crime. This is because public expectations of the police are rising and the nature of crimes is changing, such as with technology increasingly being used in criminal activities.
Last year, the police responded to 89 per cent of urgent cases within 15 minutes, while 92 per cent of non-urgent ones saw an officer on the scene within 30 minutes.
But Mr Teo said that the remaining cases, where the police failed to show up quickly enough, are what would "attract the most attention".
"People feel aggrieved as they were not helped in good time. They feel the police were too slow to respond to what they consider...important to them," he said.
For the public to keep its faith in the police, Mr Teo said it was imperative for the latter to continue building ties with the community and to be capable of handling the changing nature of crimes.
He called on the police to remain "professional and honourable" in order to maintain the trust and respect they have earned from the public.
"Police officers are the ones the public turn to when they are in need," he said.
Mr Teo reiterated that officers who misbehave, such as by abusing their authority or behaving in an unethical or self-serving manner, would be taken to task.
Mr Teo also highlighted the findings of last November's Mercer's Quality of Living survey, which listed Singapore as the eighth-safest city in the world.
"Singapore is one of the few cities in the world where it is safe for anyone to walk alone, anywhere and at any time of the day," he said, hailing it as an "achievement we can be proud of".
Yesterday, the police also announced that 700 more Housing Board blocks and carparks will be fitted with police closed- circuit TV cameras by the end of the year.
This is in addition to the 300 that were announced last month.
darylldj@sph.com.sg
