Mr Yaw Shin Leong, the former MP for Hougang and Workers' Party (WP) member has apologised to Hougang voters.
However, his former party appeared not too impressed with his short apology, and one nominated MP has called Yaw's apology weak.
In a posting on their FaceBook page, a WP statement said: "We have noted the media release by Yaw Shin Leong. Yaw is no longer a member of the Worker's Party."
"We remain focused on supporting our candidate, Png Eng Huat, for the Hougang by-election."
His apology comes a week before Hougang voters go to the polls.
In the letter which was released to the media, he told the voters that he was sorry for the "inconvenience" caused as a result of his expulsion from the WP.
In his letter, there was no mention of the alleged extra-marital affairs.
He explained his absence in the country.
Since Feb 15, he and his wife had travelled out of Singapore in an "attempt to build" their lives as "private individuals away from the glare of the media".
They would always regard Singapore as their home and "will be back regularly", he wrote.
Lastly he called on the voters to support WP's candidate Png Eng Huat to keep the "Hougang Spirit" strong and the "flame of parliamentary democracy alive".
Nominated MP and Singapore Management University law lecturer Eugene Tan said that Yaw's letter was a weak apology.
He noted that Yaw only apologised for the inconvenience caused, not for abandoning voters and his party. She called it a "breach of trust."
He went on to explain that as such, his action could backfire on his former party, as it opens up more opportunities for PAP to raise questions of how WP handled the matter.
The problem with the letter, Prof Tan said, was that it doesn't clarify doubts or concerns that voters might have.
Dr Gillian Koh, senior research fellow at the Institute of Policy Studies, told The New Paper that his letter could further polarise fence sitters.
However, some say the letter came at the right time and could help WP.
Associate Professor Tan Ern Ser at the National University of Singapore said that the letter shows that Yaw still supports his party and shows that WP has a united front.
Mr Yaw had to vacate the Hougang seat after he was expelled from the WP on Feb 14 for failing to give an account of the allegations on his extra-marital affairs.
The vacancy resulted in the ongoing by-election in which WP is fielding Mr Png Eng Huat. The People's Action Party is fielding Mr Desmond Choo.
