SINGAPORE - Speaking to the press after winning yesterday's Hougang by-election, Workers' Party (WP) head Low Thia Khiang addressed concerns over the recent incident, where minutes from the party's meeting was leaked to the media.
Mr Low said that the party does not plan to investigate the matter as he believes that WP does not have any means to do so in the first place.
He said it's regrettable that the media, which in likelihood has the resources to better investigate the leak, has not dug out the perpetrator.
He said that, as a pillar of democratic society, this does not reflect well on the credibility of the media.
In answer to a question on whether they are worried that their members may be leaking confidential information to the media, Mr Low said he does not want to speculate on the matter.
"I don't think the media has identified the source in the first place, so I don't think I can assume it's from the party," he said.
He then invited the media to investigate the matter and get back to the party, since they were the ones who broke the story.
"I think there is one media who even interviewed the sources, so can you tell us who the person is?", he challenged the media.
The party also does not have any plans to do a post-mortem on the unexpected surprise sprung by one of its members Dr Poh Lee Guan, who applied for a political donation certificate despite the party saying there was no intention for there to be a second WP candidate for the by-election.
His action fuelled speculation that the party might not be united.
Mr Poh was later a no-show during nomination day, and told the media that he was only a 'spare candidate'.
"I think we will not go into that until later. If there is any news, I will let you all (the media) know," he said.
As for the rumours that the party is not united, Mr Low firmly rejected the allegations, saying that the recent incidences are just 'isolated cases'.
"The party stays united as one. I don't understand why people keep harping that WP has problems, malfunction, these are all calculated to discredit the party, to affect the fate of people of the WP. This is probably the strategy of the PAP? I don't know," he said.
