Most 48-year-old men would not let their father kiss them in public, but Mr Peter Koh is not one of them.
"He will turn his head towards me when he wants me to kiss him," said Peter's father, Mr Ronnie Koh, 82.
Peter, the second son of Mr Koh and Mrs Florence Koh, 72, is confined to a bed in the Red Cross Home for the Disabled (RCHD).
During the interview that was held at RCHD's rooftop garden, Peter often turned his head towards Mr Koh, silently asking for a kiss. Mr Koh always obliged, and Peter smiled each time a kiss was planted on his temple.
Mr Koh visits Peter at the home every Wednesday and Saturday, when he will feed Peter lunch, as well as shave him.
Peter fidgeted as he was being shaved, touching his face every few minutes, but Mr Koh would gently brush his hands away to ensure that he did not get hurt.
He shaved his son briskly and efficiently, his years of experience evident. After all, the parents have been taking care of Peter since he fell ill at two years of age.
Peter had developed a high fever when his parents were at work. Brushing it off as a regular fever, they tried to use an ice pack to reduce his temperature. It did not work, and Peter cried throughout the night.
The next morning, they rushed Peter to the clinic where they were told that he had encephalitis, a viral attack that damages brain tissue. The incident left him physically and intellectually disabled.
"Tonight, a fever, tomorrow, a vegetable," said Mr Koh sadly.
Peter is now confined to his bed. When he needs to be moved, either for baths or for physiotherapy, he is transferred to a wheelchair. He retains minimal control of his limbs.
Unable to take care of himself, Peter has to rely on his parents. They took up the gauntlet and cared for him for 42 years, until an accident in 2007.
Mr Koh was pushing Peter's wheelchair, carefully easing it down some steps, when he lost his balance.
Peter and the wheelchair fell on him and he blacked out. When he came to, he lay there for 10 minutes before a family of three happened upon them. That episode caused Mr Koh, then 77, to be hospitalised for three days.
It was then that the parents realised that age had caught up with them and they could no longer take care of Peter on their own.
"I didn't like that we had to put him in RCHD. It felt like we were dumping him." Mr Koh recalled.
"I was hurting inside. Here," he said, gesturing at his heart.
It does not bother him that Peter has never celebrated Father's Day with him.
"It is not convenient," he explained. "Most restaurants are not wheelchair-friendly."
For now, the parents' twice-weekly visits are enough. During these visits, Mr Koh willtell Peter about his day, but his son is unable to reply.
"He can only make sounds. So, I will try to make him laugh," said Mr Koh.
