SINGAPORE must continue to attract immigrants to slow down the decline and ageing of its citizen population, according to a report released by the National Population and Talent Division (NPTD) yesterday.
The report said that if the total fertility rate (TFR) remains at its current 1.2, the country would need an immigration inflow of between 20,000 and 25,000 new citizens annually to keep the citizen-population size stable.
The TFR refers to the average number of children that a woman would have in her lifetime.
In the past few years, the number of new citizenships awarded annually has hovered in the 18,000 to 20,000 region.
The report also illustrates five scenarios tracking the growth and change of the country's population from now until 2060, based on different conditions.
It "seeks to provide a picture of our demographic challenges to facilitate reviews of population policies", an NPTD spokesman said.
The citizen population does not include permanent residents or foreigners, and the scenarios highlighted are not predictions or forecasts.
This year has been described as a "demographic turning point", as the first cohort of post-war baby boomers, born between 1947 and 1965, begin to turn 65 years of age.
Thus, from now to 2030, Singapore will see "an unprecedented age shift" as its citizens retire.
Under the report's Scenario B, which assumes that Singapore's TFR does not change, and there is no immigration, the citizen population will begin shrinking in 13 years' time (2025). The median age of the citizen population will also be raised to 45, up from the current 39 years.
The number of deaths will also exceed that of births by then, and the pool of working-age citizens - those aged between 20 and 64 - will drop steadily from its current 2.1 million to about 1.3 million by 2060.
NPTD also included a hypothetical Scenario A, which assumes zero immigration and where the TFR hits 2.1 - the replacement rate - immediately. The replacement rate refers to the rate required for the population to renew itself.
However, this scenario goes against Singapore's past track record.
The other three scenarios maintain fertility rates at current levels, but with different levels of immigration, each showing how immigration can mitigate the decline in population, as well as slow down the decline in the number of working-age citizens.
This is the first report released by NPTD since it was established in January last year. It intends to release more papers and roll out platforms to engage the public in the lead-up to a White Paper on population, which will be released at the end of the year. Public consultation is expected to start in the coming months.
