A combination of incoming SMSes on a Jetstar captain's mobile phone and a fatigued co-pilot nearly led to disaster at Changi airport.
The pilots, who together have over 17,000 hours of flying experience, had neglected to bring down the wheels of the jet as they attempted to land.
This shocking incident was detailed in a report released by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) on Thursday.
The incident happened on May27, 2010 at about 7pm. At its lowest, Flight JQ57 was 120mabove the ground at Changi airport.
The seeds of the near disaster were sown when the captain forgot to switch off his mobile phone after receiving a call from the airline's operations group informing him of a change in the weather at Singapore just before the flight - which took off from Darwin at 2.20pm.
When the 220-seat Airbus A320 was approaching Changi Airport at a height of between 760m and 610m, the captain's mobile phone started beeping with incoming SMSes from a Singapore mobile phone service provider.
The captain reacted by unlocking and turning off his mobile phone, and he did not hear his co-pilot's repeated calls that "something was not quite right" - although his No. 2 could not spot the error.
The pair, who are both Australians, were eventually alerted when a cockpit alarm sounded to warn that the wheels still had not been lowered.
The captain moved the undercarriage lever "instinctively". This confused his co-pilot who wanted to abort the landing. Neither spoke to each other about their intentions.
But when a "too low" ground-warning alarm sounded, the pilots went ahead and aborted the landing at 120m, as the wheels would not be fully extended and locked in time.
ATSB said in its report: "The investigation identified several events on the flight deck during the approach that distracted the crew to the point where their situation awareness was lost, decision making was affected and inter-crew communication degraded.
"In addition, it was established that the (co-pilot's) performance was probably adversely affected by fatigue."
Lessons learnt The number of Singaporeans on the flight was not revealed, but the budget carrier said that it had incorporated the lessons learnt from the incident in its pilot training.
It also added an item to the takeoff checklist providing a reminder to pilots to ensure their mobile phones are switched off.
"Pilot distraction meant all the landing checklist items weren't completed before the aircraft passed an altitude of 500 feet (152m), at which point a go-around was required under our operating procedures," said Jetstar's Chief Pilot, Captain Mark Rindfleish.
"The combination of factors on JQ57 has provided new learnings and the opportunity to add to these safeguards, which we take very seriously."
A spokesman for the carrier added that the pilots have been counselled over the incident, although she could not confirm if they were still working for the company.
She also pointed out that ATSB did not identify any organisational or systemic issues in their investigation.
"These cancelled landings are standard procedure for all airlines and happen every day at airports around the world," she said.
Commenting on the incident, retired air force pilot Willie Chow, 62, who has 43 years of flying experience, told The New Paper that a pilot usually notices the position of the landing wheels because the speed of their aircraft would change depending on whether the wheels are up or down.
In this case, he said, the two pilots were "probably too distracted to be instinctive".
"Just before takeoff and landing, passengers are reminded to switch off their mobile phones," said Mr Chow, who retired from the air force in 2004.
"So I think the captain should have set a better example and ensured that his mobile phone was not turned on."
The retired colonel added that the aircraft could have burst into flames if the pilots had tried to land the plane without lowering the landing wheels.
He added: "Pilots have to maintain a very high level of professionalism. The (safety of their passengers) should always be a top priority." Jetstar customers received the news of the incident with mixed feelings.
A regular passenger of Jetstar, Miss Kaarthikka Meganathan, 28, a university student, said she was shocked to learn about the incident.
But she believes that this is an isolated incident.
She said: "I was shocked but I think it's a simple case of human error and it can happen to any pilot from any airline."
Another passenger, Mr J. Kunaseelan, 30, a businessman, said he is perturbed by pilots' errors, but he would still continue to fly with the carrier.
"The reason why I would still fly with Jetstar is because of its good offers," he said.
