It's back to square one - the battle for Hougang's single seat has been whittled down to a straight fight between the People's Action Party's Desmond Choo and Workers' Party's (WP's) Png Eng Huat.
At one point, the contest looked to be between Mr Choo, 34; Mr Png, 50; and two other candidates - WP veteran Poh Lee Guan, 50; and hair-products seller Zeng Guoyuan, 59.
However, Dr Poh and Mr Zeng will not be contesting in the by-election.
Returning Officer Yam Ah Mee declared Mr Choo and Mr Png as candidates for the May 26 Hougang by-election to cheering supporters at the nomination centre at Serangoon Junior College (SRJC) yesterday.
Speaking first after the results were announced, Mr Choo spoke in Mandarin and English during his one-minute thank-you speech, with supporters crying out his name repeatedly.
Mr Choo urged residents to give him their vote and said the party has worked hard to serve them. Though he was unable to deliver his Teochew speech as his time was up, he later told the media it did not matter as there would be more chances to speak Teochew in the ward.
Many residents in Hougang speak Teochew.
Mr Png rallied his supporters in Mandarin, English and Teochew in his thank-you speech, calling on them to vote him into Parliament so that the WP can continue to be their voice.
In a call-and-respond fashion, WP supporters interjected with shouts of "huat ah", which means "let's prosper" in the Hokkien dialect. It was also a play on Mr Png's name.
Seeking the "mandate" of Hougang residents, Mr Choo told reporters: "I'm still going to be very focused on fighting for every single vote. I'm still going to work the ground hard, visit the markets, visit the blocks, wherever there are residents."
At the other end of the ring, Mr Png vowed to "preserve Hougang, where everything started for the WP".
The semi-retired businessman said that in subsequent elections since 1991, Hougang residents have "rejected" offers of upgrading "up to the tune of $100 million" because they wanted a voice in Parliament.
Mr Png was likely alluding to the 2006 election, when then PAP candidate Eric Low reportedly offered a $100-million, 10-year upgrading carrot to Hougang residents. However, WP's Mr Low Thia Khiang, who is the party's secretary-general, won the Hougang seat.
Mr Png said his "ground level" campaign strategy will be to do a lot of walkabouts and to meet residents in many parts of the ward, such as at void decks, shops and bus stops.
Several PAP heavyweights, such as National Development Minister Khaw Boon Wan and Education Minister Heng Swee Keat, turned up at SRJC.
From the WP, Mr Low - who is now an Aljunied GRC MP - and the constituency's other MPs - Mr Chen Show Mao, Mr Muhamad Faisal Abdul Manap, Mr Pritam Singh and Ms Sylvia Lim - were spotted as well.
Mr Khaw said Mr Choo described himself as a "hao seh kia", which means a young man in Teochew, but he is "very mature and competent".
On Dr Poh's unexpected showing as a possible candidate for the by-election, Mr Low told reporters that "Png Eng Huat is the only candidate that the party supports" and there is "no backup".
Mr Choo and Mr Png also spoke about how important their wives were to them. On his wife, civil servant Pamela Lee, 30, Mr Choo said: "To me, it's not food, it's not breakfast, but it's the moment I wake up in the morning and see my wife beside me. I think that kiss in the morning before I leave for work...that keeps me going every single day."
The couple were married two months after last year's General Election. Mr Choo also said that his wife was at the nomination centre yesterday to support him, but did not know if she could join him on the campaign trail due to work commitments.
In the lead-up to Nomination Day, Mr Png said he spent time with his wife in the evenings, assuring his family that he would still spend time with them to go jogging and have meals.
He said it was "important" that he spotted his wife in the crowds at SRJC, and he waved to her.
They have been married for 12 years and have a daughter and a son.
The two sites designated by police for election rallies are Hougang Stadium and the open field in front of Block 837.
Police confirmed that there will be no election rallies today.
