The Japanese woman killed in last Saturday's fatal three-vehicle collision, involving a Ferrari, was described by her alma mater as being "kind, full of life and a truly lovely person".
Ms Shigemi Ito, 41, had graduated from the Raffles Design Institute (RDI) in Beach Road last June with a degree in interior design. She was said to have lived in Singapore for a number of years.
RDI's Programme Director of Interior Design, Ms Rosah Lopez, told my paper yesterday that Ms Ito was a "promising, vibrant designer".
Ms Ito died last Saturday morning at the Singapore General Hospital, after a Ferrari collided into a taxi she was travelling in at the junction of Rochor Road and Victoria Street.
It is not known where she boarded the taxi and where she was headed, but she was said to have been out with friends that evening, reported Chinese newspaper Lianhe Wanbao.
Family members were present at her wake held at a funeral parlour in Sin Ming Drive yesterday. Throughout the day, small groups of friends showed up to pay their respects.
A Singaporean, Mr T. C. Thio, who is believed to be Ms Ito's boyfriend, was also present and is said to have organised the wake.
Outside the hall, funeral wreaths competed for space along the narrow pavement.
At least two wreaths were from Ms Ito's teachers and class mates. One of them carried a note which read: "Shigemi will always remain in our thoughts and memories."
Ms Ito's family and friends declined to speak with the media. Two vans and a car lined the road in front of the wake, obscuring her coffin from direct view.
Two officials from the Japanese Embassy here arrived at about 4pm yesterday, dressed in white shirts and black trousers. They spent about an hour with Ms Ito's family before leaving.
When asked, they acknowledged that they were assisting her family but declined to comment further. They would only say that it was a "private matter" and that they were honouring the requests of Ms Ito's family.
The collision early last Saturday claimed three lives, including Ms Ito's.
Chinese national Ma Chi, the Ferrari driver, 31, was pronounced dead at the scene. Mr Cheng Teck Hock, the taxi driver, 52, was declared brain-dead and died on Sunday at 7pm.
Two others were injured - Mr Muhammad Najib Ghazali, 25, a motorcyclist, and the passenger in Mr Ma's Ferrari, a Chinese national in her 20s.
Both are warded in Tan Tock Seng Hospital and are in stable condition.
Ms Ito's cortege leaves for Mandai Crematorium at 8.30am today. She will be cremated at 9am.
Witnesses say that the Ferrari crashed into a taxi when it ran a red light, causing the taxi to hit a passing motorcycle.
The impact was so hard that the taxi's engine was found 30m away from the vehicle, reported Shin Min Daily News.
Police and SCDF received calls about the accident at about 4.15am.
Mr Ma was pronounced dead at the scene by the paramedics.
According to reports, Mr Ma first came to Singapore from Sichuan, China, four years ago with his wife and child.
Friends said he was a hard-working and righteous person who worked as a financial investor. He was also applying for permanent residency in Singapore.
They said that Mr Ma, who had just returned Thursday from a business trip, had gone out to a dinner with other friends.
They alleged that no alcohol was drunk that night, although eyewitnesses have claimed Mr Ma smelled of alcohol.
Mr Richard Cheung, 31, told The Straits Times (ST) that Mr Ma did not have a habit of drinking as he was not a heavy drinker and would turn bright red after a glass of alcohol.
When Ms Ting Ting, 28, wife of Mr Ma, found out that her husband had been ferrying a young woman in her 20s at the time of the accident, she expressed surprise and asked the reporters about the identity of the woman.
Ms Ting Ting said her husband had then taken the one-year-old Ferrari out later in the night at about 3am on Saturday for a spin.
She told Lianhe Wanbao that he enjoyed driving at night as there were fewer people around and less traffic.
She also described him as an introverted person who loved his family and his four-year-old daughter. The couple was expecting their second child, and the accident had come soon after their wedding anniversary.
Despite questioning the Chinese daily reporters on the identity of the woman, she maintained that she trusted her husband as he was a loving father and husband.
She also said that it was normal for someone to send a friend home after meeting up with them.
According to Wanbao, she previously worked as a news anchor in Sichuan, before quitting her job to to join her husband in Singapore three years ago.
She is currently a director of the immigrant group Singapore Tian Fu Association.
The Ferrari was a 30th birthday present to himself last year, and is a $1.8 million limited edition model. The couple also own a $3 million condominium in the East Coast and a $400,000 BMW.
According to friends, Mr Ma was a family man, who liked playing computer games and keeping up with the news on Weibo, a Chinese social networking site.
