When Mrs Valarmathi Arumugam goes gold shopping on Akshaya Tritiya, which falls on April 24 this year, she will not only be looking to buy her traditional yellow gold jewellery... she will also consider investing some of her money in either gold bars or coins.
The 65-year-old homemaker told tabla! that while gold jewellery is still her preferred choice, she would like something that can hold its investment value over a longer period: "If the gold prices are low enough, I might get a few coins to keep."
Jewellers in the Little India belt are expecting more customers like Mrs Arumugam this year. They know the bulk of the customers will still be drawn to jewellery on Akshaya Tritiya but they are stocking up on gold bars, or biscuits as it is known, and gold coins.
Appollo Sellappas Department Store and Jewellery, which used to sell only jewellery on Akshaya Tritiya has, for the first time, stocked gold bars and coins in anticipation of this new demand.
Its manager Indhu Mathi told tabla! that the decision was based on last year's feedback from customers, many of whom asked for gold bars and coins.
"We decided to include gold bars and coins for this year's Akshaya Tritiya. Many of them I believe, think it is a more stable investment," she said.
Appollo Sellappas is carrying PAMP bars, made by Swiss refiner Produits Artistiques Metaux Precieux, that range from 2.5g to 100g in weight. The price of each bar depends on the gold price of the day, added Ms Mathi.
Indian Jewellers director Partiban Murugaiyan told tabla! that his store has come up with special Akshaya Tritiya gold coins stamped with the images of the Hindu elephant-headed god Ganesh and goddess of wealth Lakshmi. "I am seeing more people buying gold coins and gold bars this time around, which is why we have this special Akshaya Tritiya coins," he said.
Mr Murugaiyan believes there will be more customers this year as gold prices have not gone through the roof. In 2011, gold prices hit a record US$1,920 per ounce in September. At press time on April 19, the price was US$1,642.48 per ounce.
Another reason for this growing interest in gold bars and coins is the current volatility of the stock markets. Traditionally, investors turn to gold as a safe haven when the markets are uncertain. This was underlined by a spokesman from Meena Jewellers: "We are seeing more people buying gold bars for a long-term investment since the currency markets are so unstable."
Meena Jewellers has gold bars from the Perth Mint. In various weights, from 5g to 100g, the bars are made with the produce of Australian gold mines and are 99.99 per cent pure gold. Depending on the gold price of the day and the weight of the bars, customers can shell out anywhere from $700 to $7,000.
However jewellery buying will still be the highlight of the day as many of the customers are women and they prefer to wear their fortune than leave them in the safe. Men, say the jewellers, tend to be the ones buying gold biscuits and coins during this period. Said Mr Murugaiyan: "Usually bachelors buy it as they are not really interested in jewellery."
Joining the Akshaya Tritiya fever is Joyalukkas Jewellery which launched its new store in Singapore (below) on April 19 featuring a variety of gold ornaments and bridal sets, precious stones as well as diamond and pearl collections.
Another trend that has been creeping into the traditional Indian gold buying market is the multiple hues of gold.
Over the five years, gold's traditional colour has taken on a different shade of glitter with the advances in the modern alloying process. It is now combined with other metals to create a wider colour palette like pink, or rose gold as it is popularly known, white, purple, black, green and even orange - limited it seems only by imagination and chemistry.
However the greatest demand is for yellow gold, say jewellers, mainly because their Singapore customers aren't as adventurous. The most some customers are willing to experiment with, it seems, is white gold.
Meena Jewellers stocks some pieces of white gold for its younger customers and has introduced the Omega chain, a reversible piece of jewellery with white gold on one side and yellow on the other.
Its spokesperson said: "In our market, no one will buy the coloured gold. Indians basically want to buy something that is a safe investment, where there is a resale value. Having said that, the awareness of white gold is increasing. White gold is produced in 22 karats and there is a resale value to it."
White gold jewellery is made from a gold-palladium-silver alloy or gold-nickel-copper-zinc alloy.
Rose gold, which is the second most common variation, is created by adding copper to the gold.
Even Jewel Palace, which considers its customers the most traditional of gold jewellery buyers, is introducing black gold this Akshaya Tritiya - created by using rhodium or ruthenium plating or oxidising a gold chromium or cobalt alloy - in a very small way.
Its director S. Mohamed Najumudeen showed tabla! a bangle that had the merest hint of black gold mixed with a traditional yellow gold in its design and said: "The black gold is not very obvious as we want to gauge the customers' reaction to it."
Art Karat's vice-president of business development Nasrumminallah Muzaffar Hasnain told tabla! that he is seeing a trend where customers are not so concerned about the jewellery's resale value.
"They are interested in how the jewellery looks. If they want to make an investment in gold, they will buy the gold biscuits, coins or even gold stocks."
