SINGAPORE - Founder of City Harvest Church Kong Hee was arrested together with four others from his ministry on Tuesday morning.
Mr Kong, deputy Pastor Tan Ye Peng, and three other leaders from their church were picked up from their homes early this morning.
They were taken in for questioning over alleged misuse of church funds and alleged breaches under charity laws.
The police said that the Commercial Affairs Department (CAD) has conducted a thorough investigation and will be charging Kong Hee, Tan Ye Peng, Lam Leng Hung, Chew Eng Han and Tan Shao Yuen Sharon for Conspiracy to commit Criminal Breach of Trust as an Agent under section 409 read with section 109 of the Penal Code, Chapter 224.
Tan Ye Peng, Chew Eng Han and Tan Shao Yuen Sharon will also be charged for Conspiracy to commit Falsification of Accounts under section 477A of the Penal Code, Chapter 224.
All five will be charged in court for the offences on June 27, 2012.
This afternoon, at around 5.35pm, Kong Hee posted on his Twitter account: "Tough day ... I trust in You, Lord Jesus ... Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done!"
In a statement today, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Teo Chee Hean said: "I would like to stress that the charges filed by CAD are against five individuals from the City Harvest Church (CHC) regarding the use of Church funds. They are not filed against CHC itself. The CHC is free to continue its church services and activities.
"CAD carries out investigations when it receives information that a criminal offence may have been committed. CAD had previously investigated the National Kidney Foundation and Ren Ci.
"As the matter is now before the courts, we should let the law take its course and avoid speculation or making pre-judgements that may unnecessarily stir up emotions."
Next
Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Charities (COC) had also instituted an Inquiry into the City Harvest Church (the Charity) on May 31, 2010 under the Charities Act.
Both the COC and CAD have since concluded their Inquiry and investigations, respectively. Separately and independently from CAD, COC has decided to take action under the Charities Act.
Financial irregularities of at least $23 million from the Charity's funds have been discovered which, said the COC, were used with the purported intention to finance Ho Yeow Sun's secular music career to connect with people. According to the COC's inquiry, there was a concerted effort to conceal this movement of funds from its stakeholders.
Under the Charities Act and with the consent of the Attorney-General, the COC has suspended the following persons from the exercise of their office or employment as governing board members, officers, agents or employees of the Charity with immediate effect:
- Kong Hee (Member of the Charity's Board and Executive Member); - Lam Leng Hung (Chairman of the Charity's Board, Trustee, Agent and Executive Member); - Tan Ye Peng (Vice-Chairman of the Charity's Board, Trustee, Employee, Agent and Executive Member); - Tan Shao Yuen Sharon (Employee and Executive Member); - Chew Eng Han (Agent and Executive Member); - Ho Yeow Sun (Agent and Executive Member); - Kelvin Teo Meng How (Agent, Employee and Executive Member); and - Tan Su Pheng Jacqueline (Employee and Executive Member).
The COC has also suspended the above-named individuals from their Executive Memberships in the Charity with immediate effect.
The COC will also consider taking further courses of action under the Charities Act against these individuals in order to protect the charitable property of the Charity. This may include the removal of these persons from their office as trustee, governing board members, officers, agents or employees of the Charity.
For so long as these persons are suspended, they will be prohibited from taking part or being involved in managing the Charity, representing the Charity on any matters, or attending any of the Charity's Annual General Meetings, Extraordinary General Meetings and Board meetings.
The normal services of the Charity can continue as usual.
