The two candidates in the Hougang by-election have opted for door-to-door outreach rather than high profile rallies.
Rallies will be held this weekend, but Mr Desmond Choo of the People's Action Party (PAP), and Mr Png Eng Huat of the Workers' Party (WP) will spend the rest of the week working the ground.
Not only are the candidates opting for more low-key outreach efforts, according to The Straits Times, they have also been shying away from reporters.
The two have visited several coffee shops and gone on house-to-house visits, starting as early as 6.30am in the morning in an effort to meet as many residents as possible, reported ST.
However, both parties did keep the public updated as to their whereabouts through the net, with WP uploading pictures of Mr Png's walkabout and Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean giving a shout out to Mr Choo on his Facebook.
However, other than their tactics, the candidates' campaigning differed greatly.
Mr Png, along with party chief Mr Low Thia Khiang, Ms Sylvia Lim, Mr Chen Show Mao and Mr Muhamad Faisal Abdul Manap, promised to work on issues close to residents' hearts.
On a national level, Mr Png said that he wants to raise issues on transport, education and low-wage workers.
Mr Png also announced that the theme of his rally speeches will be on why it is important for WP to hold on to Hougang.
Lending his support, Mr Low said Hougang is the bastion of democracy in Singapore.
On the other end, Mr Choo said that residents should cast their votes based on local concerns.
He asked voters not to confuse democracy with the need for alternative voices in Parliament. He told reporters that the by-election itself demonstrates that Singapore is democratic, and noted that there are already five opposition Members of Parliament.
He added that he would raise issues related to making education affordable, and job conditions related to low wage workers.
To achieve this, he envisions making pre-schools more affordable, creating more family-friendly spaces, and improving job conditions for lower and middle-income workers.
The Workers' Party has set aside Saturday, Tuesday and Thursday for rallies. A date for Mr Choo's rally has not yet been fixed.
