The word murder was on the lips of the passers-by gathered at Kitchener Link Wednesday afternoon.
Several police cars were there and uniformed and plainclothes officers were seen next to a temple on a small field opposite City Square Mall.
The field was surrounded by blue-and-white police tape.
"It looked like a scene out of the TV series CSI," Madam Pauline Fong, 43, a housewife, told The New Paper.
"Everyone looked so serious. A man wearing a pair of gloves squatted down to examine the grass.
"There was a spade stuck in the grass next to him. The rest of the men stood and watched.
"I heard someone saying that bones were found buried in the field."
But the bones turned out to be those of an animal, believed to be a dog.
The police had received a call at about 10.55am, requesting for assistance, and found the animal remains at the scene, said a spokesman.
The matter was referred to the relevant authority, he added.
An environmental services vehicle picked up the bag of animal remains at 3.30pm.
Shin Min Daily News reported that a worker who was removing rubbish there had discovered a gunny sack with bones inside.
Unsure if the bones belonged to an animal or a human, he informed his boss, who called the police.
Madam Fong said: "When I saw the police tape surrounding the field, I thought to myself that it must be a big case."
It was about 1pm and Madam Fong had just driven out of the City Square Mall carpark with her eight-year-old daughter.
Her curiosity piqued, she parked her car along the road and joined the crowd.
"When I got out of my car, I smelled a stench of decay. It made me feel sick. I walked down the road and spoke to bystanders hoping to find out more," said Madam Fong.
"Everyone looked so tense and some of them told me that someone had been murdered and was buried next to the temple.
The rumour spread quickly through the crowd. Several people TNP spoke to thought that the police were looking for a body.
A City Square Mall security officer, who declined to be named, said: "There were so many police officers...
"I saw some people carrying a gunny sack and it looked heavy. I thought someone was murdered and buried there."
When TNP later told Madam Fong that the remains were those of an animal, she laughed. "Everyone looked so serious and tense. Who would have thought that it would turn out to be the remains of a dog," she said.
