Violence is always the last resort, club operators told The New Paper on Sunday.
And if their staff do react physically, they face severe penalties. But it also depends on whether it was a case of self-defence.
Says Mr Benny Heng, director of operations at Zouk: "Coming to blows with customers is a definite no-no regardless of the provocation. Restraining actions like pushing and grabbing are common."
He adds that Zouk staff would take action against drunk customers when they turn "violent and pose a threat to other customers".
He says: "The standard operating procedure for the attending security officer is to call for backup in cases when all amicable means to calm down the drunk customer fail and we need to subdue him as a last resort.
"Having more officers can help to avoid unnecessary injuries to both parties.
"When our officers move in to break up a fight, it is very common for either party to receive the occasional stray blow.
"Naturally, tempers may fray momentarily as a result, but professionalism usually takes over in an instant.
"Any staff member who displays the inability to bring their temper under control during such incidents will have their employment ceased."
For IndoChine, the key to maintaining a pleasant environment for customers is to spot and defuse potentially violent situations before they happen.
Says group marketing manager Eugene Lim: "When a customer seems agitated and his mannerisms suggest that he might be violent, the staff member will immediately inform a manager, who will assist in proactively defusing any potential situation by listening to and offering the customer assistance.
"In most situations, the 'angry' customer just needs to let off some steam and have someone listen to him...
"In any situation that arises, our bouncers' approach is one of non-violence and non-confrontation." Mr Lim says that fights rarely happen at his club, and there have been no incidents in the last few years.
Mr Adrian Wee, director of law firm Characterist, says that even though a security officer is employed to keep the peace, they will not be treated differently from individuals under the law as they are not policemen.
So if a security officer injures a customer, he can claim self-defence if he can show that his behaviour was defensive rather than offensive.
Says Mr Wee: "It generally depends on two factors - was it a reasonable reaction, and the proportionality.
"If someone is punching you and you use a knife and claim self-defence, then that's not proportional.
"If someone punches me continuously, and if I punch him once and knock him out, it is more likely to be justified as self-defence, even though blows were exchanged."
Mr Wee adds that bouncers are "entitled to use certain degrees of force to remove certain types of patrons", like the rowdy and violent ones.
But he also stresses that it is only self-defence if the bouncer acts to protect himself or somebody else from harm.
Under the law, those involved in a fight can be charged under a variety of offences, depending on the severity and if there were weapons used.
Even if one person admits to starting the fight, both parties can be charged with affray or voluntarily causing hurt. Both carry a jail term and/or a maximum fine of $5,000.
