While employers welcome new rules that prevent Indonesian maids from cleaning the outside of windows in high-rise homes, banning them from hanging wet laundry outside such homes can be impractical.
The rules, issued by the Indonesian government, require new maids from Indonesia to sign an agreement barring them from doing these household chores.
They kicked in yesterday and come after eight Indonesian maids fell to their deaths this year, while cleaning windows or hanging out laundry.
But some employers of Indonesian maids are concerned about the impact of the ban on hanging out laundry.
Said housewife Katherine Soh, 50: "The new ban is beneficial but inconvenient. Clean windows may not be necessary for every household, but dry laundry is essential to everyone."
Because of the new restrictions, employers are forced to think of alternatives to dry their laundry.
But employers like Mrs Soh said that other options like tumble dryers and laundromats are "not green" and "expensive in the long run".
Human-resource consultant Lydia Teng, 49, said that in some homes, "there might not be much space" to dry clothes indoors.
She added that it would take much longer for wet laundry to dry indoors, due to the lack of direct sunlight.
On the other hand, employers like Mrs P. Tan, 44, who works in the health sector, are unfazed by the new curbs.
Even before the ban took effect, she disallowed her maid from cleaning the out-facing windows of her home. Wet laundry is also dried inside her condominium apartment.
"When the windows need to be cleaned, I make sure that we do it together, so that I can supervise her," said Mrs Tan.
Currently, HDB windows are built to meet international safety standards and Building and Construction Authority (BCA) requirements. For example, HDB flat windows have to be placed at least 90cm from the floor, which is a BCA requirement in all residential apartments.
Still, Indonesian maid Sulis, 28, said some maids do dangerous chores, such as leaning out of windows to hang laundry, as they are afraid of "falling short of employers' expectations".
Agreeing with the sentiment, Mrs Teng said: "Sometimes, maids clean the outside of windows of their own accord, especially when they are new and trying to impress their employers." tongjh@sph.com.sg
Additional reporting by Samantha Boh
