It's going to be a multi-visual feast at the National Day Parade (NDP) on Aug 9, with a combined showcase by the sea, land and air forces to leave you awe-struck.
The piece de resistance: A special aerial fly-past by six F-16 and three F-15 fighter jets - the largest gathering of aircraft at the Float@Marina Bay - which will wow spectators at the parade, and at the various previews.
The jets will fly past the platform while executing challenging combat manoeuvres, such as the double shackle, vertical split and formation vertical climb.
They will cut across each other's flight paths at high speed and perform near-vertical climbs and extremely sharp turns.
Pilots will face forces of up to six times that of normal gravity.
"We need to work within the tight confines of the air space we have over the Marina Bay area, as well as present a visually spectacular manoeuvre," said Captain Alvin Leow, 29, one of the three F-15 pilots, on the challenges faced by his team.
The delicate manoeuvring by the pilots caps the air component of this year's theme, Salute to 45 Years of National Service in Singapore (NS45).
For the land component, more than 2,000 parade participants in their various contingents will march 10 steps forward on the floating platform to salute the crowd. This is an honour usually reserved for the parade's reviewing officer.
Six watercrafts will also execute a salute as part of the sea component.
Two high-speed interceptors from the Police Coast Guard will circle in the water, while four inflatable boats from the Republic of Singapore Navy will create a heart shape through the waves.
The six crafts will then travel at 40 knots (74kmh) towards the spectators before coming to an abrupt stop.
This will cause the fronts of the crafts to dip forward, paying tribute to national servicemen and their loved ones in the crowd.
Colonel Roland Ng, chair- man of the NDP's Parade and Ceremony Committee, said the committee aims to come up with something new every year, so that it will always be a refreshing experience.
He also noted the challenges he faced coordinating the thousands of people involved.
"The land, sea and air elements will be executed in sequence. The greatest challenge is to do each part well, and to link them up, so that they are seen as a seamless whole.
"It is not easy, but we have overcome the challenges with teamwork. We are confident that, on the day itself, we will execute a memorable salute in the NS45 segment," he said.
