Foodies who have long been fans of the popular Block 207 hawker centre at Bedok Central can heave a sigh of relief - their favourite stalls will not be closed during the ongoing major upgrading of the area.
All stalls will remain operational while a new hawker centre with an adjoining multi-storey carpark is being built beside the current one.
Upon the hawker centre's completion in May 2014, many of its popular stalls, such as Selera Hong Kong Charcoal Grilled Hainanese Chicken Rice and Teo's Noodle, will make the move there.
"We are looking forward to the new hawker centre. It will give us a new image and will definitely give us a boost in our businesses," said Mr Teo Teck Ngee, owner of Teo's Noodle.
The new hawker centre is part of the Remaking Our Heartland (ROH) initiative, a plan to upgrade various estates around the island.
Its groundbreaking ceremony was officiated yesterday by Mr Lee Yi Shyan, Minister of State for National Development and Trade and Industry, and MP for East Coast GRC.
"The existing hawker centre is a popular food destination for many people. We want to ensure that this popularity is maintained," said Mr Lee.
The number of stalls at the new hawker centre will remain at 70.
But not all stalls will remain.
Only 30 per cent of the present stallholders will have a guaranteed spot in the new hawker centre, said Mr Lee.
They are part of the first generation of stallholders at the hawker centre, who have leased their stalls from the National Environment Agency since 1994.
The rest of the tenants are either renting their spaces from lessees or have bought over another's lease in the open market. If they want to continue operating in the new hawker centre, they will be treated like new tenants.
The new hawker centre's seating capacity will go up about 30 per cent from the original 167 tables. The ceiling will be higher and the stalls' floor spaces will go up from the current 9 sq m to 15.
The parking spaces at the new multi-storey carpark will also increase to 450, from the current 340.
In addition to the new hawker centre, Bedok will also feature a Town Plaza and Heritage Corner, where residents can gather for events and also learn about Bedok's history.
Construction will begin upon completion of the new hawker centre and will finish by 2015.
An integrated air-conditioned bus interchange is also currently being built. It comes with 35,000 sq m of commercial space and 475 residential units.
The bus interchange will be completed in mid-2014, while the residential units will be finished by 2015.
Residents can also look forward to a new integrated sports complex in place of the present Bedok Adventure Park along Bedok North Street 1.
ethanlou@sph.com.sg
