Nationwide 4G mobile coverage may be achieved from the middle of 2016, based on proposals by the Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore (IDA).
The IDA revealed this yesterday as part of a public consultation - ending on May 8 - on proposals on how it should allocate scarce mobile airwaves for 4G.
The most common 4G-branded technology used now is Long Term Evolution (LTE). Theoretical LTE speeds peak at 300Mbps, much faster than the 168Mbps for 3G.
The IDA hopes to open up more airwaves in three radio-frequency bands for 4G that telcos can bid on: 1.8GHz, 2.3GHz and 2.5GHz. They are currently used for 2G services and wireless-broadband access.
Some airwaves in the 1.8GHz and 2.6GHz bands are already being used for 4G.
But there is a hitch. All of these frequency bands do not match the ones typically used in the United States for 4G services, namely the 700/800MHz band - used for television broadcasting here - and the 2.1GHz one, used in Singapore for 3G.
This means 4G mobile gadgets tailored for the US, like Apple's new iPad, may not work with 4G networks here and vice versa, said IDA.
Said Mr Mark Koh, senior industry analyst at research firm Frost &amp; Sullivan: "Firms like Apple will have to launch 4G products that cater to the rest of the world. But they won't launch just for Singapore."
Gadget makers might launch a 4G product here if they are also launching it in European markets that use similar bands as Singapore, he said.
IDA said it is offering new airwaves for 4G to meet consumer demand because it foresees that mobile-data demand will increase exponentially in the next few years.
Winning bidders of the airwaves must have nationwide 4G systems and service coverage in place one year after allocation. Underground and tunnel coverage has to be in place three years after allocation.
The three telcos said they are interested in bidding.
In December, SingTel launched its 4G service for consumers. It plans to provide LTE coverage for 80 per cent of mobile users by the end of this year, and 95 per cent by early next year.
M1 rolled out LTE services in the Central Business District for companies last June, with that for consumers expected in the second half of this year.
StarHub said yesterday that it expects to roll out LTE services by the end of the year, covering areas such as Changi Airport and Marina Bay.
It is exploring tiered data plans, and will roll out LTE gradually across the island.
