When she first learnt of the Government's plan to build a nursing home in her Bishan neighbourhood, this old dame clapped her hands in glee.
"You see, that means my son and my grandchildren can visit me easily," she says in Hokkien with a toothless grin.
Yet in the very next breath, Madam Yeo Thin Choo, 70, stares into her coffee and asks somewhat apprehensively: "But my neighbour told me that a group of residents have protested against the plan.
"Does that mean that the Government will listen to them?"
"I hope not. I pray not."
Age is catching up with her, she says, and "all my son's boys and girl are growing up fast."
She has three grandsons, aged 13, 14 and 16 years, and one granddaughter, 18.
She lives with her only child's family in a four-room flat and "the home is getting smaller."
It doesn't help, says Madam Yeo, that she is also ridden with "old age illnesses."
"Hypertension, diabetes, high-blood pressure and gout," says the former mild stroke patient.
She reveals that she has been actively looking for a nursing home, one where she hopes "I can live in till my last breath."
Two homes that she shortlisted are "too far."
"Bishan is perfect. Just four streets away from my son's home," she says.
But Madam Yeo says she understands the rationale behind the protest.
"It's a natural human instinct," she concedes.
The Ministry of Health (MOH) plans to build a 260-bed nursing home facing three blocks of flats in Bishan Street 13 by end-2014.
The Lions Home for the Elders will be six to eight storeys tall. At a dialogue held last Sunday, a group of 40 residents petitioned against the home and asked for it to be built elsewhere.
One of the main objections raised was that the home will block airflow to their homes. One 41-year-old resident said: "The old will be groaning right into my home."
Following reports of the dialogue session published in The New Paper and The Straits Times, residents across the island argued for and against the petition.
"It's easy to criticise those against the building of the home," says Mr Mohd Johari, 50, an electrician who lives in Chai Chee.
He adds in a mix of English and Malay: "That's because it's not happening in their estate. Wait lah, when they (the Government) say, let's build a home where these critics live, they'd probably react differently."
Indeed. This is not the first time that the not-in-my-backyard (Nimby) syndrome has hit residents.
In May, residents in Jalan Batu opposed plans for a rehabilitation centre in the void decks of Blocks 10 and 11. Mountbatten Member of Parliament Lim Biow Chuan told contractors to stop work, with MOH set to review the feedback.
But in a new turn, The Straits Times reported yesterday that a group of 500 residents - made up mostly of elderly folk, some of whom live in the two blocks - have petitioned to the Government to stick to the plan.
In February, residents of Blocks 860 and 861 in Woodlands Street 83 petitioned against an eldercare centre planned in the void decks.
In the same month, residents of Toh Yi estate protested against the HDB's plans to build studio apartments there for the elderly.
Both MOH and the HDB have said that construction will go ahead at the two spots.
Miss Janine Soh, 30, a teacher who lives in Woodlands, says of the situation: "I feel the issue here is about communication."
Communicate in advance that things are slated for the space, and maybe there will be less grousing when things do change. She thinks this notice should be given years ahead.
And I agree.
Yes, there may be consultations with residents before these plans are unveiled.
But if it happens just weeks or months before the actual announcement, to many, it will feel like an afterthought that they were "consulted" and they will feel like things have been forced through. It's a recipe for indignation.
Maybe plans for each estate in the Urban Redevelopment Authority masterplan should be sent to each resident?
And since planners are starting on Bidadari new town, can they please factor these in now so that people will know what they are buying into?
The Nimby syndrome, by the way, is not exclusive to eldercare centres.
Even condominiums get the thumbs-down, Madam Penny Cheong, a housewife, points out.
Last month, about 50 residents in Upper Bukit Timah banded together to protest against the development of taller condominiums in their neighbourhood. Their concerns included how the development may tower over their low-rise homes and block their verdant views.
Madam Cheong says: "Sometimes, even the aesthetic view can be an issue."
I can identify with that. For some 15 years, my family enjoyed unobstructed view of the fireworks display on National Day from our living room, albeit in the far distance.
Then suddenly, in just under two years, one condominium sprouted up, with another two under construction at the same plot of what used to be vacant land.
And last year, we found ourselves robbed of the fireworks display.
And oh, since I'm at it, at my block's void deck is the Golden Sands Corner that was built 10 years after we moved in.
The area, which boasted a flatscreen TV then, vending machines and ample benches, was officially declared opened by Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean in March 2005. It was meant to be a place where senior citizens hang out.
Except for that grand opening day, no one really has seen the TV (which we assume is hidden behind two door panels), much less watch a TV show.
And the void deck spot is littered with cigarette butts, half-drunk cans of soft drinks and beer, discarded empty cigarette packs and sometimes, even a used condom or two.
Maybe we should have petitioned. Petitioned ahead against the condos, the void deck's special corner, and the people who use the Corner?
But maybe it's not so much what is built around our neighbourhoods - nursing home or state-of-the-art void deck space - but how it's used and how we use it.
I'll stick my neck out here to say that the residents who protested wouldn't have if they or their family had use for the nursing home.
