BARELY one hour into the first day of his final year at Republic Polytechnic (RP) in April last year, Mr Syamil Siddiq Abdul Rahim had a rude shock.
He received a call that his father had been admitted to hospital with a stroke.
"It was a huge shock. I saw him in the morning before I left for school and he was well. It really caught me off guard," said Mr Syamil, 22.
For nearly two weeks, he shuttled between school, home and hospital. The family lost its sole source of income for nearly three months.
But it made Mr Syamil determined to do well in his studies.
He told himself: "I really have to work hard now."
And work hard he did. On Tuesday, he graduated from Republic Poly with a Diploma in Civil Aviation with merit and a grade point average of 3.92, just shy of the perfect score of 4.0.
He also emerged as the most outstanding graduate of the year and won a host of other awards.
His achievements are a far cry from his days in Bukit Panjang Government High, where he was transferred from the Express to the Normal (Academic) stream after Secondary 3.
"I had trouble with some subjects, especially mathematics," said Mr Syamil.
He attributed his better performance in poly to his being able to follow his passion for aerospace. His father's earlier disappointment also spurred him to improve.
Mr Abdul Rahim Setok, 48, said: "I always knew that Syamil was a talented child who could think out of the box, so when his results dropped in secondary school, I was very disappointed."
Mr Syamil wanted to quit school after being put in the Normal (Academic) stream, but Mr Rahim stopped him.
"I told Syamil that he had to think of his future and be better than me when he grew up," said Mr Abdul Rahim, who was then a supervisor-technician.
Mr Syamil's passion for aerospace was cultivated from an early age. His family used to live in the east, where he could often see aeroplanes in the sky.
As a child, he was glued to TV documentaries about aircraft, his father said.
"He would watch the Discovery Channel and then talk about how planes work. He also put up lots of plane photos in his room."
The family now lives in a four-room flat in Jurong West.
As he pursued his interest in Republic Poly, Mr Syamil's self-esteem also grew. He went from being an awkward boy afraid of speaking in public to a confident young man with strong leadership skills.
As president of the student club in the school of engineering, he organised leadership and freshmen camps every year.
The programme chair for Mr Syamil's diploma course, Mr Ramanathan Mohandas, who's in his late 40s, said: "Other students look up to Syamil due to his academic results, his willingness to help the weaker students and his charisma."
But his father's stroke threw a spanner in the works.
Mr Syamil took turns with his mother and elder sister to keep his father company in the hospital. The stroke, which left Mr Rahim's left side numb and slurred his speech for about a month, ended up costing him his job.
He went back to work after he recovered but was forced to resign due to pain in his back and left arm.
It took him more than a month after that to find work as a security guard.
It was lucky that Mr Syamil's polytechnic tuition fees were being paid for by Mendaki and that his elder sister, 24, graduated from university and could supplement the family income after joining the Education Service.
Mr Syamil has a younger sister, who is 12.
Despite the shock and hardship, Mr Syamil now credits his father's stroke for pushing him to work even harder.
"It made me cherish my education and motivated me to work hard to make my parents proud and to support them in the future," he said.
Mr Syamil is now working as a freelance camp instructor. He starts national service in August. His best trait? His determination, he said. And Mr Mohandas agrees.
"Because of his determination, the incident with his father only made him hungrier to achieve his goals. He did not allow adversity to affect him," said Mr Mohandas.
Mr Syamil will enrol in Nanyang Technological University and hopes to study aerospace engineering and take up business as a minor course.
He has applied for several scholarships, including the one offered by Changi Airport Group, where he did a six-month internship as part of his poly course.
After that, he hopes to go into airport management or even become a pilot.
Mr Syamil is keen to take to the skies - flying his family around would be a dream come true.
"I would love to fly my family for a trip one day, especially since my mother has not been in a plane before," he said.
