New policies regarding the hiring of Indonesian maids could make hiring them a more costly affair.
The Straits Times reported that the one-time agency fee, which is currently between $400 to $500 will go up to between $1,200 and $1,600.
The sharp rise is linked to the lowering of the placement fee for maids with experience, and maids without work experience.
Maids with no experience will have a placement fee of about $1,600, while maids with experience will have a placement fee of about $800.
The placement fee will cover the cost of medical check-ups, document processing, traning fees, and profits for training centres in Indonesia.
At present, employers pay about $3,000 upfront in placement fees.
When the new changes are implemented on May 1, these fees will be financed by the maids through bank loans given to them.
Under the current system, employers recover the $3,000 in placement fees by gradually deducting the money from a maid's salary during the first year of her contract.
This often results in the maid going without pay, or earning $10 or $20 a month until they pay off the fee.
Employers were critical of the system when they had to terminate the contract with their maid early, resulting in disputes with the maid agency over refunding the placement fee.
The new system lessens the financial burden on employees, and removes the risk of disputes over the placement fees in cases of early contract termination.
Under the new system, the maid will also take home about $200 to $300 a month because of repaying smaller instalments for the placement fee.
Another change involves the number of hours that maids are trained before they leave Indonesia.
Maids headed to Singapore, for example, have to be trained for 400 hours or 40 days.
The new policies apply not only to Singapore, but also to Brunei, Taiwan and Hong Kong.
Indonesia Embassy Counsellor Sukmo Yuwono told The Straits Times that the changes aim to raise the standards of Indonesian maids, and minimise problems with employers.
