Curry was on his mind for six whole months.
Mr Christopher Lim, NTUC Foodfare's executive chef, laughs wryly as he recalls how he and his team struggled to make sure that everything was "just right" for the new budget meals the co-operative had been planning.
The graduate of hospitality school Shatec had 20 years experience working as a chef at the then Dynasty and Orchard Hotels.
He was also the executive sous chef for German microbrewery and restaurant Paulaner Brauhaus till 2002.
But coming up with a recipe for the humble curry proved quite a challenge.
The first tries were absolute disasters. His panellists - made up of colleagues at the co-operative - panned it completely, he says with a mock groan.
"I think they were tough on me as they are all foodies," says Mr Lim.
"Why? Because we came up a version which didn't have enough of a kick!"
It may be a basic dish, but they also wanted to make sure everything was right for the Rice Garden project - the name for the social outreach programme to provide affordable nutritious, value-for-money meals.
"Maybe it was a matter of pride - we don't want to cut corners, we just want to present good food," said the 43-year-old.
"Even though it would be cheap, it had to be satisfying."
The dish is part of the selection now offered by NTUC Foodfare's Aljunied stall. The stall introduced the budget meals in 2009 in an attempt to help low-income Singaporeans stretch their dollar.
Diners can choose either a fish fillet, a pork cutlet or a chicken wing, fried, braised or served with curry sauce - at as low a price as $1.99.
The $1.99 rate is available to those on the Public Assistance Scheme, senior citizens, students, full-time national servicemen holding concession cards and NTUC union members.
For others, the meals are $2.50, though the price may vary depending on the choice of side dishes.
On May 1, the co-operative opened a new stall called Warong Rice Garden at Block 19, Toa Payoh Lorong 7.
The stall, which serves nasi lemak and laksa, is expected to be halal certified soon.
Despite the cheap prices, Mr Lim says his team of six researchers made sure the dishes were made with the best ingredients available.
He adds that this is possible as NTUC Foodfare is a not-for-profit organisation and buys the ingredients in bulk.
He oversees every aspect of research - even making sure that the batter used for its fried chicken hits the spot between cost and taste.
When asked why he was so adamant on having a curry dish on the menu, Mr Lim says it is because it is something everyone here identifies with.
Using the curry example, he outlined the effort that went into the recipes.
"We went to many places to eat curry, to get a taste of what was out there in the market.
"Our next challenge was the cost. We chefs will constantly be looking for the best ingredients at the lowest cost. We had to be very creative in that aspect."
The trick was getting the price point as well as the right taste, he explains.
"The most common thing is always the hardest to nail down, and the curry dish was something we had to do over and over to get right."
While the first versions failed, the research team came up with a variation of the Malay curry. The slightly spicy concoction received the thumbs-up from the panellists.
Panellist Juliana Salleh, a senior manager with NTUC Foodfare's marketing and communications department, admits that it "did get a bit much" to try the dish again and again.
"The latest batch felt familiar yet unique and everyone liked it. That's was when we knew we had a hit," she says.
Not that Mr Lim found the journey troublesome.
"At the end of the day, Singaporeans appreciate good food. If we present something everyone likes, they will come back," he says.
With the recipe approved, Mr Lim and his team worked to prepare the curry mix.
Batches are made at the NTUC Foodfare kitchen at Senoko South Road, ready to be cooked by Rice Garden employees at the respective stalls.
Despite overseeing the other aspects of NTUC Foodfare's projects, Mr Lim still makes trips to the two Rice Garden outlets to gauge customer reactions.
"My mother was a hawker so I've been in the food business for a very long time," he says with a laugh.
"If there is one thing she taught me, it was to always listen to your customers. That's the only way you can make your food better."
