More second-time buyers will be able to select a Housing Board (HDB) flat following the bumper launch of 8,000 HDB flats last month.
In a blog post yesterday, National Development Minister Khaw Boon Wan said that there were 10.2 of such applicants for each Build-To-Order (BTO) flat launched in both mature and non-mature estates, excluding studio apartments. This figure was much lower than the 25.6 for the previous BTO launch in January.
Mr Khaw said that, with the tripling of the BTO quota for second-timers in non-mature estates, application rates there were 6.7 for last month's launch, compared to 20.7 in January.
Application rates for second-timers improved for last month's Sale of Balance Flats (SBF) exercise as well.
Overall, there were 45.7 applicants for each flat, excluding studio apartments, yesterday - an improvement over the 56.3 rate in the previous SBF exercise in September last year.
First-timers continue to enjoy a high chance of securing their first flat, said Mr Khaw.
Overall, there were 2.1 applicants per flat for last month's BTO launch. The January exercise had a lower rate of 1.6. For last month's SBF exercise, there were 1.9 applicants per flat, compared to 3.8 last September.
In non-mature estates, the rate last month was 1.8 for BTO flats, which Mr Khaw said "is even more reassuring".
"(First-timers) who applied for these BTO flats are almost assured of a flat, even though we have tripled the chances for second-timers."
There were about 26,000 applications as of 5pm yesterday for the 8,000 units in last month's BTO and SBF exercise.
On whether the improved rates for second-timers came at the expense of first-timers, Mr Mark Teo, a senior group division director at ERA Realty Network, said there could be "some give and take" as the Government juggles the demands of both groups of home buyers.
"But it is not a critical factor as the (Government) is going to push out more flats," he said.
Mr Lee Sze Teck, senior manager of research and consultancy at Dennis Wee Group, said "the bulk of launches will still be reserved for the first-timers".
Mr Teo and Mr Lee do not expect further property cooling measures any time soon, either.
But Mr Lee said measures could be rolled out if the high demand in the private-condominium market persists. "There could still be some spillover effects into the HDB resale market," he said.
In his blog, Mr Khaw said the Government "will continue to calibrate (the) rules to help as many buyers as possible".
