ONLINE photo and video competitions will be held in the lead-up to Singapore's 47th birthday on Aug 9, to enable Singaporeans here and abroad to reflect and express their love for the country.
The engagement initiatives will include an online portal which links all social-media channels related to the National Day Parade (NDP), and a photo competition using Instagram, a popular photo-taking application for Apple and Android devices.
In addition, Singaporeans can submit video clips of themselves singing the National Anthem, which will be used in a virtual-choir segment - entitled Loving Singapore: One Heart, One Voice - during the parade.
At a media briefing held yesterday, Colonel Desmond Tan, chairman of the NDP 2012 executive committee, said the new-media initiatives will "allow Singaporeans to express, to come forward and just say, why they love Singapore and what they are proud of in this country".
The theme for this year's NDP is "Loving Singapore, Our Home". It aims to encourage Singaporeans to reflect on what they love about Singapore, and how each individual can express this love.
"It is also a time for Singaporeans to come together and reflect on what being a Singaporean means to them, what matters most to them and what, really, do they love about this country," said Col Tan.
This theme will be coupled with the new NDP logo, known as Orchidstar, unveiled yesterday. It was designed by Ms Tan Ai Khim, 31, a design and media lecturer at the Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts.
The logo's outline takes the shape of an orchid, with part of the logo in a heart shape.
Ms Tan said she used the shape of an orchid as all Singaporeans would find it representative of home and Singapore.
This year's NDP will be held at The Float@Marina Bay, and will also serve as a salute to 45 years of national service here.
Parade spectators can expect to see and hear a record number of nine F-15 and F-16 fighter jets perform an enhanced version of the annual aerial flypast.
Another NDP highlight will involve over 2,000 parade participants executing the "Advance-in-Review Order" manoeuvre, in which they will march forward in unison.
For more information, go to the official NDP 2012 website (www.ndp.org.sg), which was launched yesterday.
samboh@sph.com.sg
