The former chief of the Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) faces charges of obtaining sexual favours from not one but three women. He is reported to have had sex in a car at a carpark for four out of the ten occasions.
According to the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (CPIB), Peter Benedict Lim Sin Pang is charged with corruptly obtaining sexual gratification from two female vendors and one potential female vendor to the SCDF in return for tenders on IT-related contracts.
The three women have since been named, according to a Channel News Asia report.
They are: Ms Pang Chor Mui, a senior executive at Nimrod Engineering, Ms Lee Wei Hoon, a director at Singapore Radiation Centre and Ms Esther Goh Tok Mui, a business development director at NCS Private Limited.
The authorities are looking at 10 occasions that took place between May 2010 and November 2011.
According to news reports, the offences allegedly took place at three carparks - one near Marina Bay Golf Course, one near near East Coast Big Splash and one near the Singapore Indoor Stadium.
The offences also allegedly took place at a flat in Clementi, at an apartment in Tanjong Rhu and even in a hotel in Paris, France.
The Straits Times indicated that Lim obtained sexual gratification from Ms Pang on May 2 two years ago at a carpark near Stadium Walk.
A year later, he obtained gratification with Ms Goh at a carpark near Marina Bay Golf Course. In May 2011, a month later, he allegedly did the same at an apartment in Tanjong Rhu and at a carpark near the Singapore Indoor Stadium.
LianHe WanBao reported that Lim had sexual relations with Ms Goh twice in Sep last year over three days at the apartment in Tanjong Rhu and Clementi.
Peter Lim is now out on a police bail of $10,000. His passport has been surrendered to the authorities, reports said.
Peter Lim declined to comment on the case, instead asking for "space", a Straits Times report said.
The man was arrested on Jan 4 by the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (CPIB) and was investigated under the Prevention of Corruption Act over allegations of "serious personal misconduct".
Another former top civil servant, Ng Boon Gay, was arrested for similar charges in December. Ng was the former director of the Central Narcotics Bureau.
The two are former government scholars and between them, had served more than 40 years in the uniformed services, according to The Straits Times.
