A fractured left heel after a fall in January left Mr Kwek Soon Teng, 51, wheelchair- bound and unable to go back to living alone in his two-room Aljunied flat.
Mr Kwek, who also suffered a stroke in 1999, said: "It would have been very inconvenient for me to move around in a wheelchair in my small flat."
After his three-week stay at Changi General Hospital (CGH), he checked into Grace Corner - Singapore's first nursing- home facility to help patients recuperate and return to their daily routines within 12 weeks.
Other than daily exercisetherapy sessions there, Mr Kwek and fellow patients are made to feel at home, wearing their own clothes, fixing their own drinks and having meals at a dining table.
The 32-bed facility situated within the The Salvation Army Peacehaven Nursing Home in Changi was officially launched yesterday by Health Minister Gan Kim Yong.
Mr Gan said the facility, run under a new-concept model by the Ministry of Health, will help to cater to patients who "may require a longer period of rehabilitation and recuperation to improve their mobility and function".
Patients typically stay between two and five weeks at a community hospital.
Set up last December, the nursing facility is a collaboration between Peacehaven Nursing Home and CGH. Both institutions are under the Eastern Health Alliance (EHA), one of the six public health-care clusters here.
On plans to roll out the new health-care model to other institutions, Mr T. K. Udairam, group chief executive of EHA, said he is looking for people to take on the challenge.
Grace Corner has dealt with 33 patients recovering from fractures or strokes so far, of whom 20 were successfully discharged within 12 weeks. Patients typically pay about $300 to $1,400 for a month's stay, depending on the amount of government subsidy made available to them.
Ms Low Mui Lang, executive director of Peacehaven, said that patients at the facility are all required to take leave to return to their homes. This, she said, will eventually allow them to make a smooth transition to their daily routines.
Ms Low said that she derives the greatest satisfaction in seeing patients such as Mr Kwek return home and get back to their daily lives.
Mr Kwek, who spent 11 weeks at the facility, said: "I came here in a wheelchair, and now I am able to walk around my neighbourhood with the aid of a walking stick."
