Two senior citizens assaulted this week. Are we losing respect for the elderly?
It is Friday morning and this group of Qigong kakis are discussing the latest incident where a 76-year-old woman was pushed out of the rear door of a stationary bus.
Mr Alex Ong, who was annoyed that she had pressed the bell at the last minute, causing the bus driver to stop the bus after the designated bus stop, had first got into a heated argument with her.
Madam Lam Nuah Jio, 75, who heard about the incident from one of her friends, shakes her head, somewhat upset.
She says in Khek, with one hand in the air: "What is happening? Sad, ah. More and more young people seem to be losing their patience with us old folks."
Her friend Helen Wong, 73, nods in agreement.
Says the woman, who has three teenage grandsons and one teenage granddaughter: "Just the other day, I reminded them to be more patient."
It was right after she read the newspaper report about how Madam Lim Geok Kim, a 72-year-old cleaner, got a volley of vulgarities and a punch in the face from a foodcourt patron.
Madam Lim had told the woman at the Kopitiam outlet in Tampines Mall last Sunday afternoon not to leave used trays on the floor.
The elderly cleaner suffered a cut near her left eyebrow.
Both incidents - as well as the recent debate on whether old folks' centres or homes should be built in neighbourhoods - make many of our elderly heartlanders uneasy.
Thirty-six out of 45 people I interviewed, aged between 50 and 79, wonder if there's a place for them in the hearts of busy Singaporeans.
Mr Neo Kay Heng, 62, a part-time supermarket cashier, says in Mandarin: "I don't think it's fair to say that all of us are treated badly, but then again, it's true that young people get irritated with us easily."
He cites those he meets in his job and how some of them pass sarcastic remarks that he is slow.
Says Mr Neo: "If my manager can hire me as a cashier, it means that I can't really be that bad, right?
"Yet, customers just want us to check out their items fast, like we're Superman. A second slower and I've got a few saying 'Uncle, you better go home and sleep lah'."
Vegetable seller Lim Ah Chun, 69, asks in Mandarin: "Whatever happened to the saying, 'jia you yi lao, ru you yi bao' (having an old person in the home is like owning a piece of treasure)?
"Instead, we've become more like a burden, an unwanted baggage of responsibility."
I was saddened to hear that coming from him.
Did the incidents this week really translate to a growing disrespect for the elderly?
On the other side of the coin, I know why my good friend gets annoyed with her elderly mother-in-law.
It'd be tough, I reckon, to be patient with someone who makes it a point to announce to the whole neighbourhood when her son and daughter-in-law are fighting with each other.
Or, that her daughter has been sacked from her job for the third time because she is "just too fat and lazy".
But it's even sadder to hear a 19-year-old student declare openly that "I don't like old people".
This attitude of disrespect and dislike could stem from something far more practical and innocuous: That many elderly people work in low-end menial jobs these days.
But that is the harsh reality of their lives.
Many find it hard to "retire comfortably", especially if their children have a family to feed or if they are in the lower- to middle-income groups.
"What I'm worth to my family is what I can help contribute to the total income," laments Mr Png Jit Poon in Hokkien.
The 78-year-old toilet cleaner says: "It's not like I have a choice. We just need to make ends meet."
He doesn't hope for a raise, even though there are recommendations by the National Wage Council to help workers like him.
All he wants is to keep his job.
It strikes me how powerless these elderly people must feel.
How shunned they must feel by society, which apparently cannot see beyond their economic productivity.
Then there are those who are abandoned in homes for the aged with no one bothering to visit.
Not even if it's for an hour each month.
There is no ready solution, but perhaps we can stop complaining about our older workers.
Sure, some of our elderly folks may be slow, they may even be grumpy, but if anyone should do something to help them, it should be us.
The next time we see someone old, who's still trying to prove that he or she is a useful citizen of this country, we may want to pause and think: What if he or she is our parent?
What if we were to be in those shoes one day?
The young should be taught what it is to respect the old - and that's the responsibility that adults have.
Teach your children well - unless you want to end up alone and hungry.
