Complaints about delays and flight cancellations by budget airlines have been around since they started. But what can you do if you are caught in the situation?
Can you claim from the airline if you miss your connecting flight and fail to get to the hotel accommodation booked at your next destination?
"A lot depends on their ticket or the website (if it is an e-ticket), whether there's a disclaimer or not," said lawyer Ang Kim Lan of Goodwins Law Corporation.
"If it's no fault of the consumer, the airlines should make some gesture to compensate the consumer."
Recently, about 150 passengers of Singapore-bound Jetstar 3K842 were stuck in Guangzhou, China, for two days when their 1.20am flight on June 11 was delayed due to a "mechanical issue". The flight eventually took off on June 13, 1.20pm.
When contacted, the Consumer Association of Singapore (Case) said: "Some contracts provide for a situation where delay occurs. The contract might state that the airline is not responsible if the delay is caused by a third party, act of God et cetera, and if the delay is for a short time...
"However, if the contract says that the airline is not liable for delays howsoever caused, such a clause may be rejected by the court as being an unfair term and being in breach of the Unfair Contract Act.
"It may be possible to claim for hotel charges as this may be considered as a direct result of the delay."
Case added that it expected the airline to inform consumers "promptly" and help with accommodation when the delay is prolonged.
It suggested that consumers take up insurance to cover flight delays. But such policies usually cover delays that last for days and not for shorter ones.
Still, the onus is on the passenger to give enough allowance.
Lawyer Michael S Chia, a partner at Sankar Ow &amp; Partners, told The New Paper: "For things like connecting flights or holiday plans, the budget airlines may not have specific notice of the details and may not be liable if the damages are remote."
Compensation by full-fare airlines is "better" because they are insured for events like delays and this is "reflected in the cost of the ticket", Flightglobal's managing editor for Asia, Mr Siva Govindasamy, told The New Paper.
Both lawyers and Case advise consumers to heed the old adage "caveat emptor" - let the buyer beware. Mr Chia said a budget airline's contract of carriage will contain exclusion clauses which may say that it doesn't guarantee that it can carry passengers or their baggage at the scheduled date and time of the flight and that schedules may change without notice.
"They sometimes also say that flight times do not form part of the passengers' contract of carriage with the budget airline," he added.
"Often, people would just sign such forms or make bookings on such terms without reading or understanding them to their own detriment."
The number of complaints against airlines - budget and non-budget - filed with Case rose to 57 last year from 38 in 2010. Up till the end of last month, 14 cases have been filed.
But then again, the last few years have seen more budget airlines, flight routes and passengers taking budget flights. "( So,) by mathematical progression, the number of complaints would have also increased," MrChia pointed out.
Jetstar told TNP that it flew 2.8 million passengers last year and 2.5 million in 2010. Tiger Airways and AirAsia did not provide figures.
Jetstar passengers who were stranded in Guangzhou told TNP they were stuck in the plane for five hours on the airport tarmac, but what annoyed them further was that the flight kept being rescheduled.
Said IT consultant Ng Hwa Swee, 24: "We were told there would be a flight at noon (June 11), but when we rang the hotline to confirm, we were told it was shifted to 7pm. Then we told that a 1.20am flight was confirmed, but when we arrived at the airport, we found out that it was cancelled and (were told) there was a noon flight on June 12, by which time my friends and I had given up.
"Why couldn't they be straight with us and tell us that there wouldn't be any flight until two days later?"
Brand expert Jorg Dietzel told TNP that budget airlines need to develop a protocol for events like delays or service breakdowns.
"Leaving decisions about service recovery to the local crew won't work. They'd be stressed, overwhelmed and bound to follow their usual procedures, which are insufficient in a crisis situation... Handing out free drinks and snacks during a delay is infinitesimally cheaper than losing passengers over bad PR."
When contacted, Jetstar said the flight was delayed due to "an operational issue identified prior to the flight's departure. A new part was required to be flown in to fix the issue". It had given all 149 passengers accommodation and meal vouchers.
A spokesman told TNP that affected passengers have been offered a "a full refund, a free change of flight date, or re-accommodation on the delayed service" and a $200 Jetstar voucher.
Those who booked flights back to Singapore on another carrier will be "fully reimbursed" .
The airline said: "The delay in Guangzhou was due to an unforeseen mechanical issue... without permission from the airport authorities we were unable to de-plane passengers... Jetstar sincerely apologises to the passengers affected by this delay."
