Vanakkam, bienvenue, welcome.... so say the shop signs on the Rue Du Faubourg St Denis in Paris. In fact, I feel as though I have just stepped out of Chennai Central railway station. In reality, I am in Paris' Indian quarter, home to immigrants from the former French colonies of Pondicherry and Karaikkal.
Dodging crowds of humanity, I exit the hyper-busy Gare du Nord station and step out onto the rue du Faubourg St Denis - Paris' Little India, or should I say Little Madras. I could be walking down any main street in Chennai.
The shop signs are in Tamil; the stores are called Thangamma Sarees and Tirupathi gift store; the appetising smell of idlis and sambar and other pure vegetarian sapaad (meals) wafts out of restaurants like Krishna Bhavan and Saravanaa Bhavan while the corner shops sell Anandavegadan and other hot-off-the-press Tamil revues.
Always my first and must stop, VT Cash And Carry has everything Indian crammed onto its shelves. An exquisite selection of Paris' best and freshest Asian vegetables is available here; drumsticks, tender coconut, bitter gourd, lady's fingers, curry leaves... recipes float in my head. It also carries every spice under the sun, a frozen section for samosas, chappatis, kulfi, dals, basmati rice, hair oils, Lakme make-up, Horlicks... oops, a packet of Bombay Mixed Munchies almost fell on my head!
Today, I buy the latest issue of Filmfare and fresh jasmine garlands for my daughters, but on Sundays I am ready for a heist. I march in armed with shopping bags and carry away half the store as my patient husband waits in the getaway car, keeping an eye out for the gendarmerie (police) in this difficult no-parking zone.
Hooked on Hindi movies, my children discovered Aishwarya Rai and Bollywood at Vaanavil Music. The price of five DVDs for 10 euros always stops them with "mummy, pleeeaase!!". I have found some great buys here: Classics like Mother India, Mera Naam Joker; and the children love the funny dance videos like Hum Tum, Bachna Ae Haseeno and Chance Pe Dance.
Singapore has its presence here too, with Singapore Silk Point... a gift shop loaded with souvenirs from India. Tablas, sitars, harmonicas, Indian outfits, cushion covers, table cloths, Hindu deities and Indian costume jewellery cover every corner of the store. Printed dresses for children sell for 25 euros and adult clothes for 40 euros upwards. But don't ask me why it's called Singapore Silk! The owner wasn't too chatty.
Next up is Saravanaa Bhavan and I wonder if this vegetarian restaurant chain's owner Punnaiyadi Shiv Kumar, son of Mr P. Rajagopal from Chennai, is giving Ronald McDonald a run for his money. Saravanaa Bhavan is a profitable business with 14 branches in India and roughly 30 branches worldwide, including one here in Paris' Gare du Nord.
At lunch time, every table is chockful of French office-goers, Pondicherry families with children and British and Japanese tourists as I squeeze in with my children. I love the stainless steel thalis and other tableware. Even the cups and saucers have a stainless steel effect, nostalgically reminding me of my childhood in Madras, gorging buckets of sambar at Woodlands.
I order thalis, idli sambar and mango lassis. Aieoo, the thalis are hearty meals, the idlis are divine, but the sambar and vegetable curries are too salty! My bill is 92 euros; hmmm, prices are a bit steep, considering the food is pure vegetarian.
New Pondicherry Restaurant definitely rates as one of my favourite south Indian restaurants in Paris. Not only does it serve the perfect mix of vegetarian and non-vegetarian meals, with a bit of north Indian tandoori thrown in, the restaurant has recently been renovated, and the decor is friendly and pleasing. I love the rasam; and the samosas, both vegetarian and non-veg, are to die for.
The manager is from Thanjavur district in Tamil Nadu and we are soon having a lively conversation about Chennai politics of which he knows all the in-depth details.
"How do you keep in touch?" I enquire.
"Madam, all the Tamil magazines are available here, Anandavegadan, Junior Vegadan, Indian Express, Cinema Express. We are completely up to date," comes the reply. Karunanidhi is alive and well in Paris.
Mr Selvakumar, owner of Ganesha Sweets, came to Paris from Pondicherry in the 1980s to join the service militaire (France's mandatory military service). Since citizens of Pondicherry are French passport holders, they are eligible to apply for service militaire.
Noticing the absence of Indian sweet shops amidst the plethora of Indian restaurants in Little Madras, he rented a shop in 2007, took a small bank loan and, presto, restaurant-goers looking for ladoos and jelabis after a good dosa or a sumptuous thali began to pour into Ganesha Sweets.
I have always had to wait in a long line to get served the delicacies here, not knowing what to choose from the hundred-odd varieties of sweets. I usually take a 1kg box of jelabis, ladoos, pedas and Mysore pak that disappear as soon as my children get their hands on it once I'm home.
The entrance to the Sri Ganesha Temple is so nondescript that I walked right past it. I eventually stopped a postman on the street and asked for directions.
"It is right behind you, madame," he smiled. "You can find it from the pile of shoes outside."
Sure enough, my shoes join the pile outside, with the hope that I find them when I step back out; Paris being notorious for pickpockets.
I let myself into a large white-tiled room where two pundits are performing the puja. There are deities of Ganesh everywhere, with huge brass oil lamps lighting the room. I am given a booklet and buy a coconut and flowers wrapped in newspaper. An immense sense of peace washes over me and I accept the offer of a sip of cardamom-scented milk and a sandalwood bindi on my forehead.
"All are welcome here." says a gentleman from Mauritius. "We have a lot of tourists coming too."
The worshippers are a mix of people from places such as Pondicherry, Mauritius, the Reunion Islands, Sri Lanka, with the common bond of being able to worship Ganesh together.
"You should see this place during Ganesh Chathurthi," adds the gentleman. "No place to move." He tells me that 30,000 to 40,000 worshippers and tourists crowd the streets of Paris' 18th arrondissement or quarter during the festival in early September.
The statue of Ganesh is covered in flowers and fruit and mounted on a huge army tank (probably borrowed from those in the service militaire) while the faithful sing and dance in a long procession.
There are other touches of Pondicherry in this city. And the most striking is Satya Oblet (below in a Kenzo ad), the seriously gorgeous model from Pondicherry, naturally tall and lanky (6 feet 2 inches), with beautiful hazel green eyes. Despite all that, he struggled to make it in Paris due to his dark skin. "It was a time," he says with a shrug, "when dark models were just not making it. So I took some advice from people in the fashion industry and went blond."
The advice came from fashion icon Jean-Paul Gaultier. His sultry dark looks coupled with punk rock blond hair and blond beard were so unusual that haute couture couldn't get enough of the Pondi guy and his career skyrocketed.
Born in Pondicherry in January, 1976, Satya was adopted by a French family and schooled in France. He worked for a while as an airline purser and then went into the fashion industry, where he worked for Jean-Paul Gaultier and Kenzo. He is one of Paris' highest-paid male models and is the face of Kenzo perfumes for men.
Unfortunately, the handsome model is off the hit list. He married long-time French girlfriend Capucine Mary in April last year. Today, Satya is a successful businessman with a soft heart, touting his Shalimar line of clothing between London, Paris and Los Angeles. He also takes time off to do charity work as an ambassador for the United Nations.
Laden with shopping, I make my way back into the crowded Gare du Nord station where an old lady looks curiously at the drum sticks poking out of my numerous plastic bags.
As I open my handbag to get my mobile phone, a sweet smell permeates the metro, coming from the little jasmine garlands that I bought near the Ganesha Temple. I hold them up to my nose and inhale; my memento of Little Madras in Paris.
