The poor and lowly educated who are accused of crimes will soon be able to get help in understanding legal proceedings and engaging a lawyer to represent them.
This will be made possible through a new centre which will be set up within the Subordinate Courts by the fourth quarter of this year.
The Community Justice Centre, which will be located on the ground floor of the Havelock Road building, will also offer free legal clinics to those eligible under existing criteria set by the Law Society.
The centre will also be able to provide information on court structures and processes, and court etiquette, and help in filling up court forms and making other applications. This will be available to everyone, whether they have a pending court matter or not.
Under a new lay assistance scheme, an accused person can also be accompanied by volunteers, who will provide the accused with practical advice and emotional support during hearings.
The centre will receive annual funding of $250,000 for the first three years from the Tan Chin Tuan Foundation.
Speaking at a Memorandum of Understanding signing for the establishment of the centre yesterday, Chief Justice Chan Sek Keong said: "Access to justice for the whole community plays an important role in building such an (inclusive) society."
The Criminal Legal Aid Scheme and Association of Criminal Lawyers of Singapore have been helping those who cannot afford lawyers. A news report last Sunday said they defended about 350 poor people for free last year.
However, statistics from the past three years showed that more than one third of those accused of crimes in court had no lawyers during the pre-trial phase.
Almost 80 per cent of divorce cases involved parties without legal representation.
CJ Chan, who is the patron of the centre, said more needs to be done as the number of self-represented people is likely to go up in the wake of rising legal fees.
He said a study conducted by the courts in 2010, based on interviews with more than 600 self-represented individuals in the district and magistrate courts, revealed that more than 80 per cent of them stressed the need for more information and explanation on court procedures and processes, as well as access to some form of legal advice.
"You must therefore ensure that when they need to enforce their legal rights... they should feel at ease and be better able to put their version of the story to the court," he added.
