SINGAPORE - Professor Cham Tao Soon, Chairman of the Land Transport Authority (LTA) Academy Advisory Board, has become the first recipient of LTA's new award recognising those who have demonstrated leadership and passion in enhancing knowledge in the transport sector.
As the Chairman of the board since 2008, the Academy has benefited tremendously under his leadership, said Minister of Transport Mr Lui Tuck Yew, who presented the award.
In addition to charting many new grounds for the Academy and achieving international recognition, Prof Cham also masterminded the joint Master of Science programme with SIM University and the setting up of the UITP Centre for Transport Excellence in Singapore.
Mr Lui, who was the guest of honour at the 3rd Land Transport Excellence Awards, also presented LTA's Most Service-Oriented Individual award which recognised outstanding customer service staff.
This year, three award winners were honoured - bus captain Mr See Chip Yew, customer service leader Ms Faridah Bte Salim, and taxi driver Mr Eric Yeong Cho Ser.
Mr Lui, speaking on the need for all sectors to work together to ensure a smooth and pleasant experience for commuters, also thanked the public for providing constructive feedback and suggestions to improve upon the transport network.
He encouraged the public to continue sharing their observations with the Government.
This year's Land Transport Excellence Awards attracted a total of 115 entries from across various sectors of the industry - including public transport operators, architectural firms, as well as individuals - in 19 award categories.
Mr Lui also spoke on the progress the transport sector has made in alleviating commuter woes, saying that the Government will continue to inject more trains and upgrade the system over the next few years.
He also spoke on an ambitious rail capacity expansion plan in place, with more trains and new lines to be added over the next five to six years.
The next five years will also see a total increase of 800 buses, translating to a substantial improvement in the crowding situation, improved frequencies, and a better bus journey, he promised.
He added that while it will take some time for these enhancements to be put in place, commuters can rest assured that the Government will continue to take stock, review, and update their plans, and work towards ensuring commuters enjoy the benefits sooner rather than later.
