He has drawn on the pavements of nearly 30 countries worldwide.
He has even had to fend off police officers who tried to stop him from drawing on what is essentially public property.
But American Kurt Wenner is not a serial vandal. He is an artist who is credited with the invention and mastery of three-dimensional (3-D) pavement art.
Mr Wenner was in Singapore on Thursday for the promotion of his latest drawing, showcased at Changi Airport Terminal 3's Departure Hall.
Titled "A Millionaire's Life", it allows viewers to imagine themselves as millionaires in a huge mansion, with dollar bills and gold bars under their feet.
This drawing is part of a six -month "Be a Changi Millionaire" retail promotion, in which shoppers who spend a minimum of $30 at Changi Airport stand a chance to enter the contest. The promotion starts on Saturday and ends on Nov 11.
Although Mr Wenner now gets commissions from all over the world to practise his art, his pavement drawings - which gives the illusion of depth when viewed at a certain angle with the naked eye - was not always welcome on the street.
"Once in Naples, the crowd watching me work actually carried the police away when they tried to stop me! They then came back with about six police cars, and I had to run for it," he said with a smile.
Mr Wenner, 52, who is self-taught and who later studied at the Rhode Island School Of Design and at the Art Center College Of Design, developed his skills further at an unusual place - at US space agency Nasa, as an advanced scientific space illustrator.
As part of his job, he had to create perspective views or cross-sections of unusual structures, such as renderings of future projects to Mars, Venus and the sun, all without the help of computer graphic imagery (CGI).
Mr Wenner says that he took away from his time at Nasa a keen sense of creativity and imagination. But after a few years there, he had a hunch that with the advance of CGI technology, his job would become obsolete.
So he moved to Italy in 1982 to work at an art museum. But his new job paid him so little that he had to sell his drawings to tourists and security guards for about then-US$15 (S$19).
Mr Wenner however, soon discovered the demand for his street drawings and was receiving US$150 to US$200 a day in tips.
Mr Wenner said one of his first 3-D pavement works, Dies Irae (Day of Wrath) done in Italy in 1984, is his favourite. The artwork was inspired by a Latin hymn of the same name, which describes Judgment Day.
"The juxtaposition of the theme with the modern environment made it especially memorable," he said.
Unlike his other works, which are drawn on the ground using pastel chalks he makes himself, the art piece in Changi Airport is a pre-drawn print of his original work. This allows people to walk on it without ruining the artwork.
Viewers can sit or even lie down on the drawing while posing, something that was impossible just a few years ago when MrWenner was still using mainly pastels on pavement.
He feels that this emergence of pre-painted durable artwork will revolutionise the art form, as it allows viewers to interact with the piece in a more immersive manner.
"I have been creating interactive drawings since 1987, but not as much as I would have liked as they would be destroyed extremely quickly.
"It was not until about six years ago that the technology advanced to a degree where my drawings could be displayed in such a form accurately," he said.
Changi Airport is installing a photo booth facing the artpiece for visitors to capture their own "Millionaire moment" for free. It declined to comment on how much they had paid Mr Wenner for his drawing.
Mr Wenner plans to release a book on geometry, including his experiences of each and every 3-D anamorphic drawing he has done - nearly 200 of them.
"I don't like doing a drawing where I don't learn anything new," he said.
In A Millionaire's Life, this was a spiral staircase that he said was the trickiest part of the drawing - he even had to create a small 3-D model of it for reference before he was satisfied with its appearance. Mr Wenner, who has taught more than 100,000 students throughout workshops and lectures over the last few years, also said that he has plans to go back to teaching.
"After this art form is commonplace in art galleries and museums, I want to demonstrate the knowledge and describe the fullness of the work to students."
