She's only 25, but has already composed four musicals, cut her own CD with original tracks, and can speak seven languages.
Meet piano prodigy Rahel Senn, who is a blend of Singaporean and "ang moh".
Her auburn-coloured hair and sharp features give her a distinctly Caucasian look.
But when this leggy young woman breaks into a self-composed Hokkien jingle, or laments passionately about the loss of tradition in heartland areas like Ang Mo Kio and Toa Payoh, she could almost pass off as Singaporean.
Miss Senn, who is a Swiss citizen, was born to a Singaporean-Chinese mother and a Swiss father.
Last Sunday, the classically-trained musician performed about 20 tunes to a crowd of 3,000 at the Botanic Gardens, at an event that was open to the public.
Although she grew up in Switzerland, her family made yearly trips here to see her maternal grandmother.
Fitting in was not always easy.
"In Switzerland, people look at me and say, 'Chinese', and when I'm in Singapore, they say 'ang moh'. It's not easy being Eurasian," she says with a laugh.
The outspoken pianist, who uses her "lahs" and "lors" at all the right places, says music helped her find her voice.
As a child, she was extremely quiet and introverted, says Miss Senn, who teaches at Raffles Institution as a music consultant.
"I always felt there was something out of balance, a sense of disharmony within me.
"I had a Hokkien mother and a Swiss father - the cultural difference was huge. It was in the smallest things," says the elder child of a physics professor and a housewife.
Speaking animatedly in Hokkien, she says: "In Switzerland, we dump our bags on the train floor, but here, we say, 'Eh, tou kar jin la sam (the floor is dirty)' and don't put it on the floor.
"And as a child I couldn't explain this sort of tension between the cultures, until I found music."
She says she "never really learnt" the art of composing, although she began taking basic music lessons when she was nine years old.
She picked up simple chords, but was not forced to practise the scales, arpeggio (the notes of a chord played in rapid succession) or made to take piano exams.
The talented pianist began making waves in the Swiss media when she wrote an original musical at age 17.
The junior college she was attending had required students to submit an original project in order to graduate.
"I knew I could not do a scientific piece of research. So I thought, okay, just write something. Just write music.
"I sat down, had 88 keys, then I just tried.
"I was quite good in mathematics and I think music is quite related to mathematics.
"In a mathematical order I tried to understand how a piano is built. I just started with a simple piece and things went from there," says Miss Senn.
Before long, her first musical, which involved about 70 students, was born.
The production, which was in a mix of German and English, was a hit with the public and the media, who called her a child prodigy.
"It wasn't an easy musical - it had schizophrenia as its main theme. After it was performed, people came to me with feedback and that was the first time in my life where I said something, and people understood," she says.
Miss Senn is quick to dispel the misconception that gifted children do not need to work hard.
"It might have come to me as a gift, but when I recognised that, I started working. The musical and the CD - they were hours of work, and that's the thing people misunderstand, that it doesn't take effort," she says.
Her talent and hard work has clearly paid off.
She has been chosen to be a Young Steinway Artist, joining an exclusive group of about 40 other accomplished pianists.
She speaks seven languages - French, German, English, Spanish, Italian, Mandarin andLatin.
Composed musicals when she was 17.
Holds a degree in music, from the university of Lucerne.
