SINGAPORE - Apple launched its iTunes Store in 12 Asian markets on Wednesday, giving access to millions of songs and movies including local favourites, but regional giants China and India were not on the list.
The move by California-based Apple, which has sold more than 16 billion songs worldwide on the platform, opens it up further to growing Asian economies where its devices have proved massively popular.
&ldquo;What took them so long?&rdquo; said Chen Wei Li, a 28-year-old Singaporean who owns an iPhone, iPad and MacBook Pro laptop.
&ldquo;I personally am looking to download some music off the iTunes store,&rdquo; he added.
The iTunes Store is now open to consumers with credit cards issued in Brunei, Cambodia, Hong Kong, Laos, Macau, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Sri Lanka and Vietnam.
It was already available in Japan, Australia and New Zealand.
Customers will now be able to choose from more than 28 million songs, including hits by Asian stars, as well as rent or buy movies from studios such as 20th Century Fox, Paramount, Universal, Disney and Warner Brothers.
&ldquo;We're always working to bring the iTunes Store to more customers around the world, as conditions permit,&rdquo; Apple said in a written reply to AFP when asked why China and India were not yet included.
Neha Dharia, a Mumbai-based analyst with business research firm Ovum, said several criteria including support for intellectual property rights are considered by Apple before opening up the iTunes Store to any market.
&ldquo;These include the adoption of Apple devices, consumer preferences for digital distribution of content, ability to forge partnerships for procuring local content and, of course, levels of piracy and the measures to combat it,&rdquo; Mumbai-based Dharia told AFP.
Apple's Asian expansion, which followed the December launch of the iTunes Store in Brazil and 15 other Latin American markets, now makes commercial sense despite concerns over piracy, another analyst said.
&ldquo;Up to a certain point, piracy in the whole region was something they were looking at with a critical eye,&rdquo; said Melissa Chau, a Singapore-based regional research manager with US market intelligence firm IDC.
&ldquo;But what has changed in the last couple of years was how popular iPads and iPhones have become in this region.
&ldquo;It makes sense for them to capture revenues from these users who have iPads and iPhones.&rdquo;
Apple is estimated to have shipped 35 million iPhones and iPads in the Asia-Pacific region excluding Japan in 2011, Chau said.
&ldquo;Now that they have reached most markets, what other ways can they expand revenues?&rdquo; said Chau.
&ldquo;This is the natural evolution of an integrated ecosystem for their own products and services.&rdquo;
Apple's latest earnings announced in April showed it made a profit of $11.6 billion on revenues of $39.2 billion in the March quarter, thanks largely to booming demand for iPhones and iPads in Asia including China.
More than 16 billion songs have been sold through the iTunes Store since it was launched in 2003, according to Apple figures.
In March, the firm said more than 25 billion apps had been downloaded from the App Store by the users of more than 315 million iPhone, iPad and iPod touch devices.
