SINGAPORE - The Ministry of National Development (MND) will be enhancing its half yearly Town Council Management Report (TCMR) to promote greater accountability and transparency.
The enhanced TCMR will have two new indicators - corporate governance and financial adequacy to make it more relevant to residents.
The report under the new framework will include information on whether TCs' auditors have made any governance-related observations in their annual financial audit and whether the TCs comply with the Town Councils Act and the Town Councils Financial Rules.
500 HDB residents aged over 21 were surveyed in phone interviews, before the additions were made.
The changes to the current report are in reponse to the feedback given by the 16 per cent of those polled who said they are aware of the report.
The first report under the new framework will take effect from April 1, 2012. It will be published by the end of this year and cover the period from April to September 2012.
Under financial adequacy, the reports will now include information on the adequacy of TCs' funds to meet future expenses, especially big-ticket items such as repainting and repairs, and lift replacements.
MND said including financial adequacy as an indicator will help residents better understand whether the TCs have adequate funding through the service and conservancy charges (S&amp;CC).
MND will also appoint a consultant to develop an assessment methodology on TCs' financial adequacy. More details will be announced when they have been firmed up.
Introduced in 2009, the TCMR serves as feedback to residents and their Town Councils on how their towns are being managed. It covers four key areas including cleanliness, maintenance, lift performance and the management of service and conservancy charges (S&amp;CC) arrears.
Further to the two new indicators, the existing four areas will be enhanced to better reflect public concerns.
For cleanliness and maintenance, the enhanced TCMR will take into account the severity of the observations.
More importance will be given to lapses posing hygiene, health or safety concerns. For example, the TC will be rated more poorly for failing to replace a missing manhole cover, which poses a safety threat, than for failing to replace a missing fluorescent light-tube.
Under lift performance, the enhanced TCMR will not only measure the failure rate of the Automatic Rescue Device - a safety feature - and the average frequency of lift breakdowns, but will also take into account the percentage of lifts in a town that break down frequently.
This sub-indicator will help TCs focus their attention on maintenance issues that pose inconvenience to residents.
The cleanliness indicator will also be revised.
A distinction will be made between observations of unsatisfactory cleaning work and littering. This will enable the TCs to better engage residents to work together as a community to improve estate cleanliness.
The new report will have a more reader-friendly as well.
It will present the results in easy-to-read colour codes of "Green", "Amber" and "Red", instead of Levels 1 to 5 as shown in past reports. All six areas will have a single overall indicator each.
For instance, the two indicators originally under S&amp;CC arrears management will be combined into a composite indicator allowing residents to see the performance of their TCs at a glance.
To make the TCMR more informative, the report will also include qualitative observations for each TC. This will enable TCs to better address specific areas of concerns.
