SINGAPORE - It's time to clean up our act at hawker centres, foodcourts and common areas.
Frankly, the state of cleanliness in these areas is not up to standard.
It's not an ideal situation at the moment, say hawkers, customers and even cleaners.
The issue of shortage of cleaners surfaced last week with reports of how the newly-upgraded Bukit Merah View food centre has drawn the ire of customers upset over tables that were not cleared quickly enough.
The cleaning contractor, it seemed, had lost half of his workers a week earlier.
Ironically, the food centre has drawn more customers since it opened on March 1.
Not that Madam Choo Ai Zhen, 50, is surprised.
She pays $250 a month for cleaning services at a Clementi food centre where she runs a noodle stall.
It's just too tough for the cleaners to keep up with the mess most days, she observes.
And the situation hasn't improved.
Madam Choo says in Mandarin: "It's not that the cleaners are lazy or that they don't try hard enough.
But sometimes, their job is made harder by the diners themselves."
Mr Ang Chey Kheng, 56, a bak kut teh hawker at People's Park Centre, says he has seen customers littering the entire table with bits of bones, prawn shells or other remains of their meals.
He says in Hokkien: "Sometimes, I feel so sorry for them, especially the older cleaners."
Mr Balakrishnan Velusamy, 33, a cleaner at a coffee shop in Ang Mo Kio, is exasperated too that some diners can be so inconsiderate.
He says in halting English: "We have to separate the utensils used for the non-halal and halal stalls, but some diners who order from both stalls just pile everything together.
"We have different trolleys and stations, and separating them also takes time."
I spot Madam Tan Nee Sing, 66, a familiar face at Bedok North where she has been cleaning tables at the hawker centre for more than five years.
She shoos me away, saying that she has no time for idle chat but finally relents.
And the experience she shares is nothing nice.
Madam Tan, who needs the $700 a month job to pay her medical bills, says in Hockchew: "We work all day, almost non-stop, from morning till night.
"At my age, it isn't easy at all. Sometimes, customers shout at me and others even threaten to complain about me."
The widow adds: "We also have to do constant battle with the birds - a couple of minutes late and the mynahs or the crows will swoop down.
"And that makes it worse because we may even have to clean up the floor or bird poo."
She hurries off, her frail body almost bent over, as she spots a group of young men in army fatigues leave a table in a mess - soup spilling over to the floor.
She turns to give a helpless, toothy smile, and says: "See, this is what I mean."
It's a horrid job, say other cleaners.
The constant physical strain - from clearing plates and cups to being on their feet for six to eight hours - is made worse by the low pay.
A sum that can be as low as a mere $500, say the cleaners - though most stall owners pay $200 to $300 each a month to their cleaning contractors.
In our random poll, 35 per cent of the 50 people say they felt that they had no responsibility to help clear away the used crockery and utensils.
They just feel that the cleaners are paid to clean and clear up, so why should anyone do anything? Or even, break their rice bowls?
But here's a thought: It's not about taking away their jobs but there's nothing to stop us from making it less arduous, right?
For all that the productivity movement represents and the attempts to make cleaners' work easier with automation, they're still reliant on the carts, the mops and the sheer back-breaking work.
Retiree David Chan, 70, asks: "Why can't people bring their trays back to the collection point?" Like in company cafeterias, where he once worked.
There is merit in what he says, but then again, several campaigns to kick this off here in the past have failed.
Even as we discuss this, the National Environment Agency has opened a new public cleanliness hotline today.
Call 1800-600-3333 to highlight a public cleanliness problem, regardless of whether it is at a bus stop, in a canal or on a grass patch - and regardless of which public agency is managing the area.
My news editor tells me that in Japan, it's an almost automatic gesture for people to carry their trays back to the central collection point.
Service personnel then take the trays and help sort the cutlery.
So, maybe, it has to take some social pressure.
Back home, both my children automatically clear their trays when we visit fast food joints - and in the process, they have become the darlings of the staff at our neighbourhood McDonald's.
"So cute!" say some customers.
Much as it's gratifying, why should that even merit praise?
Or, is that the sorry, dirty state of affairs here?
