SINGAPORE - National service (NS) is a key issue in which Singapore-born and foreign-born citizens have different views on, with the former placing a greater emphasis on it, a study has found.
When it comes to what qualities immigrants should have to be considered Singaporean, 69 per cent of Singapore-born citizens said they should send their male children to serve NS.
However, only 43 per cent of foreign-born citizens thought so.
This was the biggest difference in views on a list of qualities both groups were given.
The study - conducted by Dr Leong Chan-Hoong, a research fellow at the Institute of Policy Studies (IPS) - was presented yesterday at the institute's conference on the integration of immigrants here.
The study aimed to suss out the two groups' opinions on what values and behaviour would allow an immigrant to be deemed and accepted as Singaporean.
From June to December 2010, 1,001 citizens born here and 1,000 citizens who were not born in Singapore were polled through door-to-door interviews.
Many other aspects in which the two groups had differing opinions were also highlighted in the study.
For example, 75 per cent of Singapore-born citizens said that getting along well with workplace colleagues is important.
In contrast, only 51 per cent of foreign-born citizens said this was important.
Also, 78 per cent of local-born citizens think being gainfully employed is important for an immigrant who comes to Singapore, compared to 55 per cent of foreign-born citizens.
When it comes to an immigrant being able to speak conversational English, 71 per cent of Singapore-born citizens cited this as being crucial, compared with 49 per cent of foreign-born citizens.
On the flipside, both groups ranked behaving like a Singaporean low as a quality an immigrant should have to be seen as a Singaporean.
This includes speaking Singlish and enjoying typical Singaporean pastimes, like shopping.
Still, both groups value individuals who respect multi-religious and multiracial practices, listing this quality as their top choice.
Whether a Singapore-born or foreign-born citizen is more accepting of immigrants was also found to depend on several factors: his sense of national pride; life satisfaction; optimism about the economy; and whether family ties are strong.
Strong national pride, for instance, made the people polled less inclined to accept immigrants.
However, high levels of optimism for the economy led to stronger inclusiveness, as respondents felt less threatened by new citizens.
Commenting on the findings, Dr Leong said NS is seen as "the embodiment of citizenship equity" and holds a lot of "emotional residue" among Singapore-born citizens.
The two years of mandatory service entail a great sacrifice not just on the individual, but on his family as well, and injuries from training are common, he noted.
He recommended having mandatory field trips to military bases for foreigners seeking Singapore citizenship, so they can observe exercises and understand the importance of NS to Singaporeans.
According to the Ministry of Defence (Mindef), first-generation permanent residents are administratively exempted from serving NS.
But their children who move here with them, considered second-generation PRs, are required to serve. Male children are liable to serve and will be enlisted at the age of 18.
Mindef added that those who renounce their PR status without serving will face adverse consequences, as it will be taken into account when they apply to study or work in Singapore subsequently, or when they try to have their PR status reinstated.
Figures released late last year showed that about 8,800 male PRs enlisted for and served NS over the last five years, while some 4,200 renounced their PR status.
Dr Leong added that, on the whole, Singapore's immigration data should be made more transparent, such as in the United States, to reveal the profiles of the immigrants and the sectors they are employed in.
