There is a new "Apple" in town.
Cellphone store Passion Mobile in Toa Payoh Central was spotted with a signboard that has a logo that appears to be a mirror image of the iPhone maker's signature logo.
Passion Mobile's logo has a stylised white apple with a bite mark on the left and a leaf-like image that slopes from left to right, while the Apple logo has the bite mark on the right and the leaf slopes from right to left.
An image of the store logo was posted on citizen-journalism website Stomp last Saturday. In the post, Stomper boon said "the bite is on the wrong side" and questioned if the logo was a fake.
When my paper visited the store yesterday, the store's representatives declined comment on the logo.
Several people who walked past the store expressed mixed views on the use of the logo.
Polytechnic student Ling Tze Hsuan, 23, said he did not think it was wrong as it is different from the Apple logo. But he added that "it could mislead people into thinking that it is an Apple store".
But another passer-by, who wanted to be known only as Lydia, was not as open to the idea. "I believe it is an infringement of copyright as the difference is not significant," said the bank executive in her 40s.
Intellectual-property lawyers contacted by my paper said the store has likely infringed on Apple's trademark.
Mr Samuel Seow, managing director of Samuel Seow Law Corporation, said: "Any other trader using the mark in the course of trade, in relation to retail services, will infringe Apple Inc's rights under the Trade Marks Act."
Mr Daniel Lim, director of intellectual property and technology at Stamford Law, said it is a "clear-cut infringement" of trademark and he expects that Apple "will not find this sort of thing humorous".
Under the Act, a person infringes on a registered trademark if, for instance, a sign used is similar to the trademark, and is used in relation to the sale of goods or services identical with, or similar to those for which the trademark was registered.
Apple could not be reached for comment by press time.
