SINGAPORE - People's Action Party (PAP) candidate for the upcoming Hougang by-election Desmond Choo said that his wife's support is essential to this campaign.
Speaking to reporters after the results for Nomination Day were announced, the 34-year-old said that he and his wife share a kiss every morning and that has still not changed.
Mr Choo married his civil servant wife in July last year.
The chairman of Hougang's PAP branch said the kiss keeps him going throughout the day. He added that even though she has to go to work, he knows she will always be with him and be ready to help him out via whatsapp and SMS.
"She has a way of delivering sweet messages to me," he said.
Speaking of his opponent, Worker's Party (WP) candidate Mr Png Eng Huat, Mr Choo said they had already spoken earlier.
They promised each other that however the results turn out; they will sit down over coffee to reminisce the nine days, as they believe they would have fought a good fight.
The current deputy director of NTUC's youth development unit believes they will become "fast friends".
"At the end of the day, it's about two passionate people fighting for the (good) of Hougang residents".
When asked if anything has changed from a three-way to a two-way fight now, Mr Choo said that there's not much of a difference as he's always been very focused on his campaign.
Before joining NTUC in 2010, he was in the Singapore Police Force (SPF) for 13 years.
He held the positions of Commanding Officer of the Woodlands NPC in 2004, Head of Special Investigation Section in 2006, and Deputy Commander of the Clementi Police Division in 2009. In 2007, he was the Deputy Director of the Foreign Workforce Policy Department, MOM.
Working with the Hougang community for more than 10 years, Mr Choo initiated the setting up of a job placement centre, gave free hearing aids to low-income elderly residents, and worked with a temple to give free Teochew porridge to residents.
Mr Choo was fielded by PAP in Hougang SMC in the 2011 General Election. The by-election is Mr Choo's second attempt at the Hougang seat, which was vacated by the Workers' Party's (WP's) Yaw Shin Leong after he was expelled from WP in February.
