In 1968, Mr V. Dhaarmalingam, then 19, marched into the Padang during the National Day Parade (NDP) in a contingent comprising the first batch of full-time national servicemen.
"My memories of my time as part of the first batch of national servicemen still come back...I'm very proud of it," he told my paper.
Come Aug 9, Mr Dhaarmalingam, who is now 63, will march in the NDP again, this time as part of a civilian contingent from the National Environment Agency, where he works as an environmental-health assistant.
"My memories will give me strength to stand firm," he said, speaking at an NDP media briefing yesterday.
This year's NDP, to be held at The Float @ Marina Bay, coincides with the 45th year of national service and will be "one to remember", said Colonel Roland Ng, 39, chairman of the Parade and Ceremony Committee.
For the first time, the parade will feature a segment called the "Commitment to Defence (C2D) March".
It involves a contingent of 140 servicemen from the Singapore Armed Forces and Home Team marching in from the seating gallery.
As they march, they will sing in unison a specially commissioned NDP song called A Nation's March, composed by musician Syawal Kassim.
"The song's message is for Singaporeans to support our NSmen and servicewomen, doing their part to defend our country," said Mr Syawal, 35, a former staff sergeant with the Singapore Armed Forces Band.
This year's parade appointment holders were also revealed yesterday. Lieutenant-Colonel (NS) Clarence Tan, 45, who is the second-in-command of the 13th Singapore Infantry Brigade, Headquarters Guards, will serve as the parade commander. He is the founder and chief executive of GlobalRoam Group, a software company.
Master Warrant Officer Tamizh Kannan, 45, will be the Parade Regimental Sergeant Major. He is the chief master trainer and institute sergeant major at the Specialist and Warrant Officer Institute.
The Colours Regimental Sergeant Major will be First Warrant Officer Pathmanaban Pitchayia, 47, a formation logistics warrant officer in Headquarters Armour.
This year's parade will also feature participants from the Republic of Singapore Navy and Republic of Singapore Air Force in their new pixelised uniforms.
ethanlou@sph.com.sg
