Part of Madam Jedah's unit's ceiling that was dislodged during hacking work in the unit above hers, was previously used to seal an opening meant for sanitary pipe fittings.
An HDB spokesman said this in an e-mail reply to The New Paper's queries about the incident.
"HDB engineers have inspected both units and determined that the incident does not affect the structural integrity and safety of the ceiling (and) flooring shared by both units," the spokesman added.
TNP understands that the sealing of the ceiling in Madam Jedah's unit was not done illegally.
People in the renovation industry who spoke to The New Paper said the incident could have been avoided if HDB had informed the contractor about the sealed opening before the renovation works.
They said the part of the ceiling that was dislodged may not have had as much reinforcement put in place as other parts of the building since it was sealed after the building was ready.
Reinforcement includes metal bars that support the concrete and infrastructure.
If the contractor had been informed that an opening was sealed off, he could have conducted his hacking work with more caution, they said.
Ms Jermaine Ng, director of architecture and interior design firm Seven Heaven, said: "When a contractor does hacking work, the ceiling below wouldn't collapse unless there is something inherently wrong with the area he is working on.
"To avoid such incidents, HDB should highlight to contractors any special attention needed at a particular area."
Ms Ng, 42, added that, unlike for private homes, only general records of additional construction works are kept for public housing units.
Singapore Institute of Planners president William Lau agreed, and said: "Generally speaking, the records (of previous works done in flats) kept by HDB are very basic. Only the original infrastructure plans mapped out by the architects are fully available. But records of follow-up construction works don't include as much detail."
Mr Christopher Tan, who owns Concept Haus, which undertook the renovation work in the sixth-storey unit, agreed that the incident could have been avoided.
All contractors who renovate HDB flats must be registered and need to submit a further application for works in their clients' flats.
In this case, Mr Tan received automatic approval from HDB after three days to change the tiles of the sixth-storey unit - but he was not notified of the sealed opening.
He said: "HDB should have highlighted the sealed opening to us when we sent in our application so we could have taken more precautions."
"I hope that there can be a system in place to inform contractors about previous works done at flats."
