Fresh from his win in the Hougang by-election last Saturday night, Workers' Party's (WP's) Png Eng Huat said yesterday that he is ready to carry out the mandate given to him by residents.
The nine days of campaigning, which led up to Mr Png attaining 62.1 per cent of votes in the single-member constituency, have been tiring, he said, but he is looking forward to the opportunity to serve the people.
Mr Png said at a press conference shortly after the results were announced last Saturday night that he will "work hard" and prioritise "one by one" the feedback given to him by residents over the last three months.
His immediate to-do list includes a tender for repairs, re-roofing and redecoration of some of the ward's Housing Board flats, the 50-year-old semi-retired businessman said.
Yesterday, Mr Png was joined by key WP members like secretary-general Low Thia Khiang and chairman Sylvia Lim on a thank-you parade around the HDB and private estates of Hougang.
Standing on the back of a pickup, the party was received warmly by supporters, who raucously cheered "Huat ah", which is Hokkien for "let's prosper" and a play on Mr Png's name. When the convoy reached Block 322 in Hougang Avenue 5, supporters swarmed the truck, snapping photographs and extending congratulatory handshakes.
Speaking to the media before the parade, Mr Low said that WP intends to move on from the political parrying in the by-election and to "work together with the ruling party for the betterment of Singapore".
WP plans to look into the Estate Renewal Programme and what else can be done to benefit residents in Hougang, he said. The party will also monitor bigger issues like the cost of living, certificate- of-entitlement prices and the progress of the country's productivity drive, Mr Low added.
At last Saturday's press conference, the WP chief said the by-election was marred by "baseless attacks" and "character assassinations" - alluding to Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean's calling into question Mr Png's honesty and integrity midway through the campaign.
Mr Teo had said that Mr Low is "free to take it up further, through legal action even".
Mr Low said yesterday that he does not want to start a "witch-hunt" for the self-professed party member who allegedly leaked minutes of a WP extraordinary meeting in the run-up to the polls.
"I have survived politically for the last 21 years as an MP," Mr Low said. "I pay a price for believing and trusting the wrong people. But I learn the lesson and I'll move on."
