SINGAPORE - Newly elected Hougang MP Png Eng Huat has taken issue with the media allegations that he set up and closed down eight companies over 12 years.
In a statement published on the Workers' Party website, he said that in the run up to the by-elections, certain publications such as My Paper and Lianhe Zaobao ran headlines like "The scoreboard of Png Eng Huat as a businessman: 12 years close down 8 company," along with the sub heading "Is Png Eng Huat very secretive?"
He said that the headlines give readers an impression that he is an "incapable businessman" and "an opportunistic person who would not hesitate to set up and wind down companies to maximise profits."
He said that the papers, however, did not get their facts right.
He clarified that he had worked with NTUC Income from 1998 to 2001. As part of his job, he was appointed by them as a Director in four of their companies and one co-op.
The four companies - i-MAP, E-Lifestyle, Juzclickcar.com and ID Connect.com - were part of the eight companies the newspapers alleged he had closed.
"I do not own these companies and had no role in their operations long after I left NTUC Income in 2001," he said, adding that when left NTUC Income, these four companies were still operational.
Of the remaining four companies he was alleged to have shut down, Mr Png said he is in control of only three.
These three are Flora De Paradis, i Productions and Crenner International.
Crenner International was a dormant company, he said.
Mr Png highlighted that these companies were shut down in an orderly manner and have no outstanding debt. He added that no one suffered any financial loss as a result of the voluntary winding up action.
As for the last company, Trancosi Singapore, Mr Png said he did not own it.
He expressed disappointment that the press deemed it necessary to dig up his business records timed to the run-up to Polling Day in the first place.
"The Pen is mightier than the sword and the media has a duty to wield the pen responsibly and not present untruths or half-truths," he urged.
