He is said to have had trysts with three women in public places such as carparks, in apartments in Clementi and Tanjong Rhu, and even in a hotel in Paris, France.
Apart from the trip in Paris and the apartment in Clementi, the other locations were about a five-minute drive from Peter Lim's Tanjong Rhu home that he allegedly owns, according to Chinese news reports.
The alledged incidents at the Tanjong Rhu apartment reportedly did not take place in his apartment, but one in the neighbourhood, according to Chinese news reports.
The 10 encounters with them between May 2010 and November last year were allegedly in exchange for favouring their firms during IT-related tenders held by the Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF).
Yesterday, former SCDF commissioner Peter Lim Sin Pang, 52, was charged with 10 counts of corruption.
The women at the centre of the saga all held senior positions in their companies at the time of the alleged offences.
Ms Pang Chor Mui, a general manager at Nimrod Engineering, allegedly had oral sex with Lim in May 2010, at a carpark near the Singapore Indoor Stadium.
Ms Lee Wei Hoon, a director at Singapore Radiation Centre, allegedly had sex and oral sex with Lim on two separate occasions late last year.
She is said to have had oral sex with him in a carpark at Big Splash in East Coast Park, and they allegedly had sex in a hotel in Paris.
Ms Esther Goh Tok Mui, a business-development director at NCS Pte Ltd, an IT company, allegedly had sex with Lim seven times from April to November last year at various carparks and apartments islandwide.
Ms Pang and Ms Lee are married and still work for respective companies, according to The Straits Times. Ms Goh has left her company.
Two of them are in their 40s.
Lim walked into the Subordinate Courts alone yesterday at about 8am, dressed in a long-sleeved blue shirt and dark trousers.
He held on to a manila envelope and declined to speak to reporters. He left an hour later and boarded a waiting black car.
Lim is currently out on bail of $10,000 and his passport has been surrendered to the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (CPIB). His case has been adjourned to July 5, when a pre-trial conference has been scheduled.
If convicted, he could be jailed up to five years and fined $100,000 for each charge.
Lim, who is married, was arrested on Jan 4 by the CPIB, two weeks after former Central Narcotics Bureau director Ng Boon Gay, 44, was nabbed.
Both men were investigated under the Prevention of Corruption Act over allegations of "serious personal misconduct".
Lim and Ng, who were government scholars, were suspended from duty on Jan 25.
Six senior SCDF officers and employees of private IT firms were also questioned. It is believed two other SCDF officers will be taken to court, said a Straits Times report.
Ng has yet to be charged.
ethanlou@sph.com.sg
