Some 66 per cent of Singapore employees remain upbeat about labour-market prospects, and their employer's financial performance, even as global economies face continued uncertainty.
The finding was from the second-quarter Workmonitor Report released yesterday by international recruitment and human-resources firm Randstad.
The global report surveyed 14,780 employees from 32 countries - 405 of them from Singapore - via an online questionnaire between January and February this year.
According to the report, the optimism of Singapore workers is the sixth highest. Luxembourg ranked tops, with 79 per cent of respondents sharing that sentiment.
Confidence was also reported across the region, such as in China (64 per cent), Hong Kong and Malaysia (59 per cent), and Australia and New Zealand (57 per cent).
Conversely, respondents from European countries like Greece and Spain were pessimistic, with just 36 and 38 per cent feeling upbeat, respectively.
The survey also revealed that more than half, or 54 per cent, of employees here are willing to take a pay cut in order to keep their jobs, should the conditions deteriorate.
Ms Karin Clarke, Randstad's regional director for Singapore and Malaysia, said that this indicates a willingness to make small sacrifices during times of economic uncertainty.
"The economic crisis of 2008 and 2009 saw some companies shedding jobs to meet financial targets," she said.
"With this fresh in their minds, employees here are indicating (that) stability is important."
Still, more than half (54 per cent) would resign if their jobs did not offer room for personal development.
The survey also found that Singapore workers tend to be a friendly bunch, with some 65 per cent of respondents revealing they meet their colleagues outside of working hours - 80 per cent of these said they have "close friendships" with co-workers.
"This tells us that remuneration, while still very important, is not the key driver for people to choose and stay at a workplace," Ms Clarke explained.
"Companies that make an effort to build a strong workplace culture will ultimately benefit from having an environment where their people are productive and enjoy their work."
vbarker@sph.com.sg
