Mr Robin Hu, Senior Executive Vice President of Chinese Newspapers Division and Newspaper Services Division, will be leaving Singapore Press Holdings Limited (SPH) to pursue a job opportunity overseas. Mr Hu joined SPH in 2004.
Mr Lim Jim Koon, a newspaper veteran of 35 years will take over as Editor-in-Chief of the Chinese Newspapers Division. Mr Lim became Editorial Advisor to Lianhe Zaobao following his retirement as editor of the paper in 2011. He will take over from Mr Hu on 1st June as chief editor of all the newspapers and magazines produced by the division.
There are two departments in the Newspaper Services Division - Circulation Department, which is the newspapers' and magazines' distribution arm of the group, and Production Department, which prints all the newspapers in the group.
The Circulation Department helmed by Mr Chua Wee Phong, Executive Vice President will report directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Production Department headed by Mr Lim Swee Yeow, Vice President, will now report to Mr Low Huan Ping, Executive Vice President of Technology. Mr Low will concurrently oversee the Information Technology Division as well as Production Department.
These changes will also take effect on 1st June.
Mr Alan Chan, Chief Executive Officer of SPH said, "I would like to thank Robin for his outstanding contribution to SPH. Over the past eight years, he launched several new products including My Paper, a bilingual free newspaper, ZbbZ, a bilingual "newsgazine" and Omy, a Chinese news and entertainment website.
"A strong circulation subscription system was also established as well as the creation of some 70 Buzz kiosks. Robin was also Chairman of Sphere Exhibits Pte Ltd and Deputy Chairman of SPH Magazines Pte Ltd. I wish him all the best in his new career," he said.
"I am grateful for the many opportunities SPH has given me. I leave with fond memories, friendship and gratitude to the many people whom I have worked with in an eight year journey that was both memorable and fruitful," said Mr Hu.
