SINGAPORE - This is a week which the diversity of Singaporeans beliefs are apparent - as people pray at their altars at home, at temples, at churches and at graveyards.
They celebrate not one but four important events - the Qing Ming Festival for the Chinese; the Panguni Uthiram Festival for Hindus; and Good Friday and Easter for Christians.
Qing Ming, which fell on Wednesday, is a time for the Chinese to remember the dead and tend to their graves.
With it falling on a weekday, many families will make use of this three-day weekend to visit the graves of their kin.
At the Choa Chu Kang cemetery yesterday, families were already tending to their relatives' graves before the sun rose.
They prayed, burned joss paper and prepared offerings of food and traditional objects in remembrance of the dead.
For Dr Boh Toon Li, 25, the annual visit to her grandfather's tomb is a family activity. She was with her parents, two sisters and uncle yesterday.
"It's a chance for us to observe family traditions," said Dr Boh.
The Panguni Uthiram Festival, which took place on Thursday, is celebrated in honour of Lord Murugan, a popular Hindu deity.
The festival was first celebrated in 1965 in Singapore and the Holy Tree Sri Balasubramaniar temple in Yishun was one of the first to mark the occasion, said Mr Narainasamy Ellatan, chairman of the festival's organising committee.
"It's similar to Thaipusam," he said.
"Devotees have to go vegetarian for two weeks to a month before carrying the kavadi."
Devotees fulfil their vows or offer thanks to Lord Murugan by carrying a kavadi - an intricate structure of steel and wood.
From 5.30am to 10pm last Thursday, up to 1,800 devotees took to the streets and carried kavadi from the preparation tent opposite Sembawang Community Club to the temple, 1.3km away.
Along the way, they were cheered on by around 15,000 spectators.
Christians observed Good Friday yesterday, a solemn day in honour of Jesus' crucifixion and death on the cross.
At St Joseph Church on Upper Bukit Timah Road, hundreds of worshippers bowed their heads in silence as parish priest Father Edmund Chong delivered a sermon about Jesus' sacrifice at an 11am mass yesterday.
Mr Jerome Oen, a 44-year-old church warden, was one of those who listened attentively.
For him, the occasion was a "commemoration of Jesus' love for his people".
Easter is preceded by a 40-day period called Lent where Christians do penitential preparation - through prayer, penance, repentance, almsgiving, and self-denial.
Easter Sunday tomorrow marks the day Christians believe Jesus was resurrected and is a day for rejoicing.
