When I was growing up, I wished my name was anything other than Neil Humphreys.
It was the least cool name in the class and provided punch lines for the lamest playground gags. What do you call a camel with three humps? ... Hump-three! What do you call a camel with three humps bending down? ... Neil Humphreys!
Oh, the hilarity. I can still see their faces, tears streaming down their faces, urine streaming through their underwear as they roared with laughter.
When I was seven, my peers believed that the gag was the funniest joke in the history of language. The trouble is I'm now 37 and I've got friends who still believe that.
So I begged my mother to change my name, or at least my surname. She always giggled and suggested "Down".
I fancied Neil Skywalker. No one's going to mess with Neil Skywalker. No one's going to take down Neil Skywalker.
I tried out the mighty moniker, gave it a trial run, as it were, with the school bullies one day, adding that the force was strong with this one.
They were suitably impressed. Or at least I think they were. It was difficult to hear over my screaming as they chased me across the playground, threatening to shove Neil Skywalker down the toilet.
As the years passed, I grudgingly accepted that my mother was never going to consent to allow her son to be renamed Neil Skywalker, or Indiana Humphreys, or Neil Astley (I went through a Never Gonna Give You Up phase where I mastered the singer's quiff and that leg swivelling thing).
I recognised my name, acknowledged its shortcomings and enjoyed its rare benefits (when authors are placed alphabetically, my novels sit beside Nick Hornby's on bookstore shelves).
After 37 years, I've gotten used to my name. Ironically, no one else has.
Two weeks ago, I attended a function at Marina Barrage. The occasion was already proving surreal because President Tony Tan was the guest-of-honour, the event culminated with a spectacular fireworks display above Marina Bay and my daughter was celebrating her fourth birthday.
She insists that the appearance of the Singapore President and the fireworks were for her birthday. She has asked for a similar party next year.
I was pondering contacting the Istana when a lovely woman approached and asked: "Excuse me, are you Colin Humphreys?"
I glanced over my shoulder briefly to check that - in a coincidence of outlandish proportions - a clan of Humphreys were not picnicking behind me on the Marina Barrage green.
"I'm sorry?" I enquired gently, as my wife stifled a giggle.
"You're that writer, right? Colin Humphreys? You're the writer Colin Humphreys?"
All right, don't keep saying it.
The woman smiled at me. It was such a warm, kindly smile. What could I do?
"Yes, I'm Colin Humphreys," I replied, something I never practised saying when I was a kid.
I tried "Bond, James Bond", "Dr Jones", "I'm Batman" and "Say, hello to my little friend" (I was a big Scarface fan, don't get the wrong idea.) But I was never Colin Humphreys.
Still, the aunty seemed happy enough to meet the mystery man and my hilarious wife spent the rest of the evening calling me "Colin".
Moments later, I was on the iPhone, checking I hadn't inadvertently stolen another writer's identity. (There is a Neil Humphreys from Liverpool who got asked so many times on Facebook if he once lived with a Toa Payoh landlady who flashed her boobs at him that he befriended me on Facebook).
At least, Colin Humphreys was close. One out of two names isn't bad. The identity I was given in Malaysia this week defied belief.
A fellow guest on a TV show leaned over during a break in filming and asked: "Are you the one who's been putting up stickers all over Singapore?"
"Am I who?"
"You know, that one who made news on the Internet, putting up stickers. I read that was you, right?" "Sticker Lady? You're asking me if I'm Sticker Lady?"
"It wasn't you then?"
I was taken aback to say the least.
"How can I be Sticker Lady? Isn't the clue in the title?"
"Ah, I read a story online saying it was you."
"That would make me Sticker Man, wouldn't it? Or a sticker man with some personal issues."
Wires had been crossed in a confusing fashion made possible only by the Internet.
Sticker Lady's story was covered in the media. I wrote a column in this newspaper about Sticker Lady. These things get copied and shared in cyberspace. They reach Malaysia. I become Sticker Lady.
I am Sticker Lady.
That's how it works.
So please allow me to reiterate that I mentioned the Singapore President in last week's column.
I fully expect to be staying at the Istana by the following weekend.
