SINGAPORE - Commuters on board an MRT train on Tuesday morning shared the ride with an unexpected passenger: a rat.
It was spotted on a North East Line (NEL) train heading towards HarbourFront Station.
Ms Chen Pei Ling, 22, who was on the train, said: "We did not shout, but some passengers were visibly shocked."
One woman who wanted to take a seat near the rat changed her mind when she saw the rodent, said Ms Chen, a student at a cooking school.
She took photos of the rat and sent them to citizen-journalism site Stomp.
Ms Chen had boarded the train at Sengkang but spotted the rat only when the train pulled into Buangkok Station.
"When I alighted at Potong Pasir, the rat was still there."
When contacted, Ms Tammy Tan, senior vice-president of corporate communications at SBS Transit, which runs the NEL, expressed shock over the sighting.
She said the company's pest- control vendor conducts regular checks at its depot and at all NEL stations.
Ms Tan added that station staff were alerted to the presence of the rodent at Little India Station.
The train was then withdrawn from service to avoid further discomfort and inconvenience to commuters.
"The rat has since been caught by our staff at the depot. We will monitor the situation closely and step up our checks if required," she said.
Pest-control firms that my paper spoke to said the rat probably got on the train at the depot.
The rat might have been able to get on board there as the train would have been stationary, said Mr Thomas Fernandez, chief executive of PestBusters.
Mr Carl Baptista, director of Origin Exterminators, said: "Rats are nocturnal creatures, so they could get into the trains at night in the depot, when the doors are opened for cleaning."
The rat could have entered the depot via train tunnels, said Mr Azlie Mohd, an operations manager at The Pestman.
Ms Tan said the sighting on Tuesday was an isolated case, adding that the company has "very stringent pest-control measures".
"Following this incident, we got the pest-control experts to do a sweep to ensure there are no other rodents," she said.
