Another rodent has been spotted at a food-and-beverage (F&amp;B) outlet. The rat was seen on a ledge at the MOS Burger outlet in Compass Point last Friday.
Nanyang Technological University student Low Chun Yuan, 25, was having lunch at the joint when another patron shouted in surprise after spotting the rat.
Mr Low uploaded a photo of the rat to citizen-journalism website Stomp.
Similar incidents have occurred in recent years. Last May, rats were seen at a Koufu foodcourt in Toa Payoh Central and at a Plaza Singapura foodcourt.
In 2008, rats fell from the ceiling fixture at a McDonald's outlet in Tampines Central.
Pest-control firms told my paper that, from their experience, there are several ways the rats can get into F&amp;B outlets.
Mr Azlie Mohd, an operations manager at The Pestman, said: "It is possible for rats to enter indoor spaces like malls via ventilation ducts."
Mr Carl Baptista, director of Origin Exterminators, echoed his sentiments and added that "rats can make use of the ventilation ducts to get around different areas of the mall".
Mr C. C. Low, head of the tenders department at construction- services firm Chye Joo Construction, said rats can gain access through various entry points above ground or underground, such as via doors, windows and vents.
He added that buildings are constructed according to guidelines set by the Building and Construction Authority (BCA).
A BCA spokesman said the authority "does not regulate or publish guidelines on how a building can be constructed to keep pests out of them".
The Code of Practice for Mechanical Ventilation and Air-conditioning in Buildings states that air ducts need to have openings so that the ducts can be cleaned.
The National Environment Agency's (NEA's) website states that food-retail outlets are required to ensure that storage areas are pest- and rodent-proof.
On last Friday's incident, MOS Burger said that a pest- control firm has removed the rat and that the frequency of pest-control treatments will be increased from twice a month to every week.
Frasers Centrepoint, the developer of Compass Point, said MOS Burger was advised to seal all openings that could serve as access points for rodents.
On the mall, a Frasers spokesman said the management is working with contractors to look into areas that may require additional pest-control measures, and that the frequency of pest-control works have been increased from weekly to thrice a week.
NEA is investigating the incident.
