SINGAPORE - The Hougang by-election is still a "gentlemen's fight", said People's Action Party (PAP) candidate Desmond Choo yesterday.
He was responding to queries on that yesterday, following Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean's Sunday rally speech.
Mr Teo said that while Workers' Party (WP) candidate Png Eng Huat, 50, asked residents to "send him to Parliament", WP had not sent Mr Png to Parliament as a Non-Constituency Member of Parliament (NCMP) after last year's General Election.
Speaking at a media interview in Hougang Avenue 5, Mr Choo, 34, said Mr Teo was just presenting facts to residents.
"Do not add more (to the facts), do not discount from them. Lay them out on the table for people to decide," he said.
Mr Png said yesterday that before the General Election, he made it clear to WP secretary-general Low Thia Khiang and the party's East Coast team that "I would not want to be considered for the NCMP position"
"I do not wish for a government to dictate on the number and type of opposition members we can have in Parliament."
Mr Choo also quashed online talk that he was bribing residents with gifts to get their votes.
Yesterday morning, the allegation appeared on a Facebook page registered as "Temasek Review" and the person who posted it said he might make a police report. The post has since been taken down.
On the matter, Mr Choo said he is a "man of integrity" and that such allegations were inconsistent with the schemes he put in place, even after losing in the General Election last year.
"If that report is made, I will address it seriously because it challenges not only my integrity, but also (that of) the entire campaign team and the entire PAP."
Yesterday, he also compared his recent rally performance with last year's.
"I could convey the message in a heartfelt way, because I've walked the ground for an additional year."
For the WP, it will be holding its second by-election rally in Hougang Central at 7pm this evening.
Videos of the speeches from WP's rally last Saturday are also available on the party's official Facebook page.
