SINGAPORE - A 43-year-old woman who suffered first degree burns to more than 80 per cent of her body after her former lover allegedly set her on fire, died late last night.
According to a Shin Min Daily News report, the incident happened at 8.30am Friday morning in Sengkang.
The woman, Ms Xiong Meiling, was staying with her aunt's family at Compassvale Lane Blk 206B, after moving out of her lover's home after a fight.
Neighbours reported seeing the man, believed to be in his 40s, outside the family's flat on the 14th floor.
The Chinese news daily reported that he was splashing kerosene on the door.
One neighbour, Mr Guo, 47, reported seeing a badly-burnt Ms Xiong emerging from the flat wrapped in a towel.
Mr Guo told The New Paper that he was woken up by loud shouting, and saw flames coming out from the neighbouring unit.
A man was standing ouside shouting: "My wife is inside!"
He got his family to help put out the fire by throwing pails of water on the burning gate and door.
Hearing a commotion, a male occupant in his thirties, believed to be Ms Xiong's younger cousin, opened the door. The man immediately rushed in to the flat, and that was how he got burnt in the process.
According to the victim's uncle, Mr Phua, 60, his niece had been together with the man for three years and were living together before they broke up.
Her parents are currently living in Taiwan and have not been informed of their daughter's condition.
The suspect and Mr Phua's son were also injured. Both suffered second degree burns to their limbs.
Ms Xiong died at 11.05pm yesterday.
Her cousin, Mr Phua Duan Kai, 32, is now in critical condition after attempting to put out the flames and is hospitalised at the Singapore General Hospital's burns unit.
According to the Shin Min Daily News, Minister of Parliament for Pasir Ris-Punggol GRC, Mr Teo Ser Luck, had arrived on the scene to lend a helping hand.
Mr Teo drove Mr Phua and his wife to visit their son in hospital, and thanked neighbours for their help in putting out the flames.
According to the police, they arrested a 44-year-old man last night for murder.
