Clumps of people dotted the lawn, under a sky tinged red by the light pollution from nearby industrial estates.
We queued, in a line that snaked down the metal staircase clamped to the side of the observatory, waiting to be admitted into the dome-shaped inner sanctum that housed the telescope.
There, we would each put our eye to the cylindrical eye-piece, peer up to heaven, and see Saturn, looking like it was made out of white construction paper and glued onto black velvet by a conscientious child.
As the long, hot afternoons of the June holidays petered out, we had decided to take our six-year-old, Julian, hand-in-hand with his best friend Dhruv, to the free, weekly stargazing event at the Science Centre.
Both boys have dreams (for now) of becoming astronomers, and competed to reel off facts about our solar system (including dwarf planets).
Dhruv's father had been a member of his school's astronomy club; Julian's dad almost joined one formed by a classmate in Sydney who went on to become Young Australian of the Year.
Me? I had watched too many times Paula Abdul's Rush Rush video, starring Keanu Reeves as a James Dean knock-off, which references Rebel Without A Cause's observatory scene.
In any case, the boys were suitably wowed. "Cool. Awesome," was Julian's verdict, after ogling Saturn, as we descended back to firm ground with metallic clomps.
All would have been well if we had called it a night there. Instead, we went to a smaller telescope on the grounds to try and catch a glimpse of Mars. And that's when the trouble started.
I saw it immediately: the Red Planet, a fiery pinprick, small but still trying to sear itself onto your eyeball; an unidentified, blue star trailing below.
Unfortunately, Julian didn't. Try as he might, the poor boy just couldn't come to grips with the telescope's viewfinder.
"I don't see anything," he whined, increasingly frustrated.
"Nothing. It's all black."
As his Papa hoisted him off the ladder-perch next to the telescope, Julian could hold it back no more and exploded: "It's not my fault! It's the stupid telescope!"
I stiffened with embarrassment. The observatory's volunteers and the dozen or so folks queuing behind us pretended not to hear, and I was glad that it was too dark to make out any faces. Hastily, we left.
Back home, the boy continued to sulk.
"Everybody could see it, except me!" he wailed. He picked at his food, and rattled his milk cup.
Finally, my patience worn down to its nub, I ordered him to take a shower and reflect upon his behaviour. I told him sternly that there was no way he was ever going to make it as an astronomer if he let a telescope viewfinder defeat him.
I lectured him on not giving up so easily. I coaxed him to imagine what might have been, if the first stargazer had complained on a cloudy night that he couldn't see anything and threw in the towel.
I told him how, as a kid, it had taken me a very long time before I got the hang of looking into a microscope without seeing anything but my own eyelashes.
I guaranteed him that by the time he got to my age (35), he would be able to see more than eyelashes using any scope.
Even as I went on my soapbox, as the boy soaped himself, I wondered if I was merely trying to convince myself that success - definitely, kindly - comes to those who stick at it long enough.
Perhaps, looking at my son and the potential in him is also necessarily about confronting how much youth, time and promise I have squandered; the bitter-sweet angst of witnessing the beautiful twinkle of a faraway, long-dead and cold star.
The boy listens. He understands.
We will be going back to the observatory again to stare unflinchingly down the tube again.
