The sole breadwinner and father of three school-going children, Cheng Teck Hock, was the third person to die in Saturday's motor accident, where he was the driver of the taxi involved in the crash.
Including Mr Cheng, three people from the crash are dead while two others are still receiving care at Tan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH), The Straits Times reported.
The 52-year-old sustained major brain injuries and subsequently died in the intensive care unit (ICU) at TTSH at about 7pm yesterday.
The collision took place on Saturday morning at the junction of Rochor Road and Victoria Street, involving a red Ferrari, a taxi and a motorcycle.
Police said there was a Japanese female passenger in Mr Cheng's taxi at the time of the accident. She died on Saturday morning and her next-of-kin has been notified.
Mr Cheng's family said that they had prepared for the worst after finding out about the accident on Saturday afternoon.
Doctors had told them that he was brain dead and he would likely not make it through the night. However, he did.
"Through the night his heart was beating hard, but his blood pressure was very weak," said his son Dao han, 19.
But Mr Cheng's condition unexpectedly took a turn for the worst at 7pm yesterday and his heart stopped.
Mr Cheng had sold fish cakes in a wet market before switching to becoming a taxi driver 10 years ago.
He was the relief driver for the taxi on the day of the accident.
Dao Han, an Anderson Junior College student who is sitting for his A levels this year, said: "When he didn't come home, we thought he was working extra hours or with his friends."
Mr Cheng has two other children - a 21-year-old daughter, Stephanie; and a 17-year-old son, Dao Long, who is sitting for his O levels this year.
At around 6pm yesterday, Mr Ang Hin Kee, an MP for Ang Mo Kio GRC, visited Mr Cheng at the hospital along with a representative from taxi operator ComfortDelGro.
Mr Ang is also the adviser to the National Taxi Association.
He said that the association will be raising funds to help the family tide over this difficult period.
