Between a durian tree and a spat over noise, I cannot decide which is more hilarious or ridiculous. Hard feelings to match the concrete walls of HDB flats?
On June 5, The New Paper reported about residents in a Bukit Batok block petitioning to have their neighbour evicted.
They complained that Madam X, who is in her late 50s, makes loud banging sounds in the wee hours of the morning.
A day later, there was a report that residents in a Moulmein Road HDB block were trading barbs over a durian tree.
The spat came to light after one neighbour called the police to complain that her neighbour had scolded her with vulgar language because she picked durians from a tree which he claimed to own. A friend, who works as a Community Mediation Centre (CMC) mediator, says: "It's amazing sometimes to hear the kind of complaints.
"Do you believe that we've even got residents who walk in to complain that their neighbour sings in the bathroom?"
He laughs, then adds: "And you have to take their complaints seriously, even if you think it's silly."
The CMC, a department under the Ministry of Law, provides community mediation services.
It deals with more than 300 cases of disputes between neighbours each year. It handled 324 cases in 2008, 366 in 2009, 334 in 2010, and 338 last year.
The most common disputes include noise disturbances and obstruction of the common corridor. Housewife Lai Lee Peng, 70, laments the loss of the kampung spirit.
Madam Lai, who lives in a four-room HDB flat in Tampines, says: "Some of my neighbours don't even smile at each other when they walk into the lift.
"They can be waiting for the lifts at the lobby and they'd stare at their feet, their mobile phones or the ceiling."
A group of six elderly people seated around a table at the Old Airport Road Food Centre were discussing the durian spat.
Mr John Tung, a retiree, 70, laughs and says in Cantonese: "So dumb to fight over durians. How much does it cost to buy your own?
"Why argue over it and make yourself unhappy? Not shiok eating then."
His friend, who wants to be known only as Mr Lim, lives in the same HDB block in Moulmein.
Mr Lim, 64, a plumber, agrees that "you can easily buy better durians, lah".
He says: "I don't want to get involved but I always laugh when I hear from my wife about the squabbles."
It's harder to tolerate noise disturbances, says Madam Chua Yeow Chi, 58, a food centre cleaner.
The grandmother of a six-month-old baby says in Hokkien: "I always say that sometimes people should learn to 'open one eye and close the other'.
"Yet, I found it hard to be patient when the neighbours upstairs played mahjong the whole day, right up to 3 or 4am."
Madam Chua says: "When it's so late in the night, the noise will sound louder. We don't have air-con in our home so when it gets noisy, my baby granddaughter wakes up."
It's easy - though unfair - to dismiss these complaints as frivolous. Sometimes, you won't know until you are living in the same vicinity.
Mr K. Yogachandran, 49, a bus driver, found this out first hand after a change in his three-year night-shift routine.
He says: "My wife used to complain that our neighbour, who lives two floors up, had rowdy parties. "Nothing much has been done even though our other neighbours have called the police several times."
Mr Yogachandran would tell his wife to be more tolerant until he found out "how bad it really was". He recalls: "The noise - music, TV shows, drilling and even banging - continued until midnight."
In February, I wrote in this column about how every few Sunday mornings, I would wake up to a din that drove me mad.
A woman's shrill screams would pierce the quiet neighbourhood for reasons so mundane that it's not worth mentioning.
I wrote about how I have harboured thoughts of marching upstairs and banging hard on my neighbour's door.
Guess what? Two other neighbours who read the column pumped my hand in gratitude for highlighting it.
Then one of them asked: "Why didn't you name her?"
Well, for the same reason I don't confront her - for the sake of neighbourly harmony.
But I am also fortunate that we are good neighbours - or friends - with the three families who share the same common space on our floor.
The reason for this success: Give and take. That's what community living should be about.
"So dumb to fight over durians. How much does it cost to buy your own? Why argue over it and make yourself unhappy? Not shiok eating then," Mr John Tung
Are we less tolerant of our neighbours these days? We ask 50 people.
YES - 66 %
"We keep a distance, so we tend to remain as strangers. And naturally, we will be much less tolerant with strangers." - Mr Kenneth Wee, 25, freelancer
"I think Singaporeans tend to move more often these days, which makes it harder for us to build better and longer-lasting relationships with our neighbours." - Mr Loy Joon Tong, 68, retiree
"Sometimes, I cannot stand my neighbours, who can get a little noisy. I honestly think that if people do not piss each other off, there wouldn't be so many problems." - Madam Leila Wong, 46, counsellor
"Singapore is so overcrowded now, the only privacy and breathing space left is probably our own homes, and I think most of us prefer not to have our neighbours intruding into whatever remaining personal space we have left." - Miss Calyn Koh, 18, student
NO - 34%
"I still see many neighbours hanging out together in void decks or common areas. This is just one of the few cases where people cannot agree with each other. It does not mean neighbours are getting less tolerant of each other." - Ms Fong Li Ying, 34, accountant
"I still think we get along well with our neighbours. There has been no change." - Mr Robert Tay, 43, businessman
"I'm really close to my neighbours. We greet each other when we meet around the neighbourhood. Some of the young children might be a little noisy at times, but it's understandable for children to play around - I just bear with it." - Mr Jeremy Sim, 44, insurance agent
