SINGAPORE - In the latest case of Singaporeans raising a ruckus over eldercare facilities being built in the vicinity of their homes, a group of Bishan residents are petitioning for an upcoming nursing home to be built elsewhere.
According to The Straits Times (ST), the 260-bed nursing home, which is to be six to eight storeys high, is to be built on an empty grass patch facing three blocks of flats in Bishan Street 13.
A petition with about 40 names was submitted to a Ministry of Health (MOH) representative at a dialogue held Sunday to discuss the issue.
About 20 residents voiced their unhappiness at the dialogue, with some bemoaning the loss of the site as a football field, and others complaining that the new building would block the air flow in to their homes, leaving them with no choice but to use their air-cons.
The petition, penned by IT manager Cheong Weng Kit, 44, claimed that the increased utility bill would amount to $7.56 million.
Retiree Seet Ker Lay, 70, said his children play on the football field, and if the field goes, his children will 'play in the void deck and stain the walls.'
Another resident, 41-year-old Bernard Lau, complained that he would have old folks 'groaning right into my home,' and said that children who 'dump' their parents in nursing homes should be required to travel further to visit them
The dialogue was attended by MP for Bishan-Toa Payoh GRC Mr Wong Kan Seng.
He reasoned with the residents that Singapore's ageing population means that the building of more nursing homes is inevitable, and by 2030, every constituency will have one.
He acknowledged that it is 'normal' for residents to object to the building of the home, but added that residents will be able to enjoy the facilities at the home too. For example, there will be beds made available for those who want respite from looking after their elderly relatives.
About 11 per cent of Bishan East residents are above the age of 65, which makes it a middle-aged town.
MOH's group director of ageing planning Teoh Zsin Woon told residents the rationale for situating homes within communities is to encourage visits by relatives, and that the Bishan site was ideal as it is of the right size and it's situated near public transport options.
The ministry said that they will take into consideration the concerns of the residents and suggestions proposed for alternative sites.
