MRT train services along the Circle Line between one-North and Bishan Stations have resumed at 10.10am on Wednesday morning, transport operator SMRT said in its latest update.
Commuters earlier encountered service disruptions between Holland Village and Caldecott stations, with the downtime later extending to the One-North station.
Trains going both directions were affected, SMRT said in its first update at 9.15am.
In total, eight stations were affected by this morning's disruptions, which was believed to be due to a track fault.
Earlier in the morning, initial announcements only stated that there were no MRT services on the Circle Line between Holland Village and Caldecott stations.
AsiaOne reader, Mr A Lim, said an announcement was made at Boon Lay station at around 8.50am, saying that the Circle Line was back up. But when he got out at Buona Vista interchange at 9.09am, ground staff there told him there was no service at the moment and advised him to find other means to his destination.
According another AsiaOne reader, announcements made at Yio Chu Kang MRT station said that Circle Line train services have resumed. However, when he reached Braddell MRT station, announcements there still said that there are no train services between the two stations.
Free bus bridging services are being offered at designated bus boarding points outside one-North to Bishan Circle Line stations.
A commuter on her way to one-north told AsiaOne that a shuttle service took almost 20 minutes to arrive.
She said the shuttle was crowded and people were uncomfortable. She said: "The bus driver was asking us to move in, then a commuter shouted: 'Sorry, no space!' before commenting in a slightly softer tone 'You think we're sardines?'"
This is the third day that rush-hour commuters are facing delays.
On Tuesday morning, a train at Jurong East Station stalled, causing a 20 to 40 minutes delay.
These delays follow those on the North-South and East-West lines on Monday, as well as the East-West line last Friday.
"SMRT will be required to provide a full report on the incidents including its plans to resolve the underlying causes. LTA will review the report and work with SMRT on the plans to rectify the situation," Mr Colin Lim, LTA's Group Director for Vehicle and Transit Licensing said in a statement.
Passengers who could not continue with their journey because of the disruption, or had to exit an SMRT train station without taking a trip but had their fares deducted, can get a refund at the Passenger Service Centre in any of SMRT's 83 stations in the next 14 days.
Most passengers coming from the North-East line at Serangoon station only found out about the train disruption at the Circle Line platform. There was a sign placed next to the fare gates indicating that the train service from Caldecott to Holland Village was disrupted due to track fault.
The downward escalators were stopped and not running. Upon seeing the crowds, some passengers decided to walk back up and leave the train station.
Train services heading from Serangoon station towards Harbourfront experienced delays at each station. The train stopped for a short while before leaving for the next. Announcements were made to notify passengers of the slight delay.
At Bishan station's Circle Line platform, at about 8.47am, an announcement was made to inform passengers that the train service has resumed. However, at Braddell Station, announcements about the train disruption were still being made at 8.50am.
There was a larger than normal crowd gathered at the platform heading towards Dhoby Ghaut at each station. At Bishan Station, there were about 10 people waiting at the second level balcony looking down on the crowd.
A few passengers were taking photos, while others were tweeting, Facebooking and texting their friends.
