When it comes to Singapore's pioneering political leaders, many youth are none the wiser. Almost one in two (49 per cent) of the young Singaporeans aged 16 to 25 quizzed flunked a street poll my paper conducted last week.
However, older youth performed better than their younger compatriots. The average score of those aged 21 to 25 was seven out of 12, whereas the average score for those aged 16 to 20 was five.
Eight people garnered a score of 10 or 11, and only one person had a perfect score. The bulk of respondents - 57 per cent - scored four to seven points.
In the survey, 100 people were asked to answer 12 multiple-choice questions on Singapore's post-independence leaders.
They were polled near several tertiary institutions, and at MRT stations and bus interchanges in different parts of the island.
The survey was conducted following former deputy prime minister Toh Chin Chye's death in early February, which sparked many comments about how little younger Singaporeans knew about the country's pioneers.
When approached by my paper, many youth were eager to take part in the poll. But just into the first three questions, brows furrowed when many respondents realised that they could not identify three pioneers from old photographs.
They were former deputy prime minister Goh Keng Swee; Dr Toh; and former social-affairs minister Othman Wok.
A staggering 82 per cent of the young Singaporeans were unaware that Mr Devan Nair was the first ethnically Indian president here.
The majority of respondents had wrongly picked Mr S. Rajaratnam and Mr S R Nathan.
About 60 per cent of those polled also did not know that Dr Benjamin Henry Sheares, after whom the Benjamin Sheares Bridge was named, was the second president of Singapore.
However, the youth polled were more well-versed when it came to Singapore's prime ministers. Nearly 70 per cent of them knew that Singapore has had three prime ministers.
Marketing executive Jamie Kao, 24, was the only person who scored full marks in the poll. She said that the poll's findings were "understandable" because youth "might feel detached" from Singapore's past.
Professor Hao Xiaoming, from the Nanyang Technological University's (NTU's) Wee Kim Wee School of Communication and Information, agreed.
"Young people are distant to the people from the past; they pay attention only to what is immediately around them," said Prof Hao, who also has a master's degree in social sciences.
Secondary-school history and social-studies teachers were not surprised by the findings too. They said textbooks at the secondary-school level are more focused on events leading to Singapore's independence.
So, students may be less aware of Singapore's post-independence history.
"It really depends on what the school wants to focus on as well," added a Ms Chong, a history teacher in her 20s.
Another teacher, who teaches history at the secondary- school level, said older youth might have done better as their lower-secondary-school history syllabus placed more emphasis on Singapore's post-independence pioneers, compared to that for younger respondents.
NTU undergraduate Liao Xiang Jun, 23, said the reason for the better scores could be that they found out more about Singapore's past on their own.
"By that age, they might have become more curious and sceptical about politics. They want to ascertain what really happened back then," said Mr Liao, who scored 10 out of 12.
tongjh@sph.com.sg
