SINGAPORE - Donations have been pouring in for late cabby Cheng Teck Hock's family.
According to mypaper, ComfortDelGro had collected about $170,000, as of Friday.
Tammy Tan, ComfortDelGro's group corporate communications officer told mypaper that staff, cabbies and the public have been generous, and the highest amount for a single donation was $30,000 from an anonymous donor.
Mr Cheng, 52, died in an accident on May 12. He had been driving his taxi past the junction of Rochor Road and Victoria Street when his car was hit by a Ferrari.
Both the Ferrari driver, Mr Ma Chi, and the taxi's passenger, Ms Shigemi Ito, also died in the accident.
Mr Cheng was the sole breadwinner for the family, and his family faced financial difficulties. His three children need help with school fees.
The National Taxi Association (NTA) was also working closely with ComfortDelGro to help the family financially, according to reports.
NTA said that fellow taxi drivers and the public have made donations, with two cabbies making a $5,000 donation each.
A group of staff and merchants at Sim Lim Square have also pooled together a combined donation amount of $10,000.
Minister of Foreign Affairs and MP for Nee Soon GRC, Mr K Shanmugan said in a Facebook post on Friday that he has spoken to several government agencies, a Foundation and grassroots leaders. They are trying to help the family in a "structured and sustained way", but will speak with the family to assess their needs when they are ready.
Mr Shanmugan said in a Facebook post on Wednesday that he told Cheng's 21-year-old daughter not to worry about university fees as long as she qualifies for a local university. He also reassured Mdm Lim that he and his grassroots leaders will help ease her family's financial problems.
ComfortDelGro is still collecting donations until the end of the month.
Cheque donations can be dropped off at the general service counter on level 1 of the ComfortDelGro office located at 383 Sin Ming Drive.
Cheques should be made payable to his wife, Mdm Lim Choo Eng.
They can also be mailed to:
THE CHENG FAMILY c/o Comfort Transportation Pte Ltd 383 Sin Ming Drive Singapore 575717 Attn: Customer Service Centre
Cash donations can be made at the cashier next to the general service counter. The office is open from 8am to 5.30pm from Monday to Friday.
