What's 31,110 divided by 85? How about 589 multiplied by 65? Don't know?
Well, nine-year-old Justin Jen does - and he does the maths using just his head.
In a matter of seconds, this pint-sized wonder can tell you the answers to mathematical questions that would send most people scrambling for a calculator.
"He's my walking calculator," says his mother Jocelyn Jen (above, with Justin), 39, a piano teacher, with a laugh.
"When we're out shopping and we need any calculations done, we don't even need to take our phones out. We just let him do them."
The Primary 3 student at Catholic High School (Primary) is a sweet, doe-eyed slip of a boy with a gap-toothed grin. He has a sister aged eight.
He likes swimming and reading Roald Dahl and the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series.
But when it comes to crunching numbers, Justin is all business. His brows furrow, his lips purse in concentration, and his hands start flicking as he works the answers out in his head.
When he's doing sums, Justin doesn't see numbers. He sees an imaginary abacus.
At just five years old, he started attending Classical Mental Arithmetic (CMA), an education centre specialising in abacus and mental arithmetic.
"My father was driving past, and I saw the banners for the centre. So I told him I wanted to join," says Justin.
"Maths is my favourite subject."
Mr Jen says Justin has always been good with numbers, so he took to mental arithmetic quickly. His teacher and CEO of CMA, Mr Tay Shy Ching, agrees: "Most students take 5 to 6 months to really understand the basics. But Justin was much, much faster.
"He took just 3 months. He's naturally gifted."
When asked if he enjoys the maths he's being taught in primary school or mental arithmetic more, Justin is quick to say: "Mental arithmetic is more fun. I like it because it's about speed and accuracy.
Mrs Jen says her son has a competitive streak. She says: "When he doesn't come out tops, he'll be very upset, so I have to step in and tell him it's okay."
Mr Tay says Justin rigorously sets his own targets: "He always tells me, 'Teacher, I want to be the best in class'. He's self-motivated."
Justin topped his class in both Primary 1 and 2. In Primary 2, he had an overall score of 297/300 in his final examinations.
When he was just seven years old, he entered the Singapore Book of Records for being the third fastest person to add 10 rows of 10-digit numbers.
In 2009, he was also crowned world champion of the CMA Online Practice International for five consecutive months, beating out participants from 15 countries.
He practises mental arithmetic by himself for about one to two hours a day, after completing his school homework.
But Justin has no plans to become a master mathematician when he grows up. "I want to be a judge. I want to put bad guys in jail," he says.
At 7, he'sthird fastest person here to add 10 rows of 10-digit numbers Topped school in Pri 1 and 2. Gets overall score of 297/300 in exams last year
