Those who are financially vulnerable but still bet large sums of money in casinos are of particular concern to the Government, said Acting Minister for Community Development, Youth and Sports Chan Chun Sing.
Speaking to reporters during a routine visit to the Tanjong Pagar Family Centre yesterday, Mr Chan unveiled plans to bar an additional 15,000 Singaporeans and permanent residents from the two casinos.
He said: "This move is one that we will make to safeguard our financially vulnerable people from getting themselves into deeper trouble."
The figure includes 12,000 recipients of ComCare's short- to medium-term assistance, who have monthly incomes of less than $1,700 per household, or $550 per capita.
Also included are 3,000 tenants in subsidised Housing Board flats who have defaulted on rent for six months or more.
Mr Chan said that the two groups are disadvantaged when it comes to financial planning and their additions are only a preventive measure.
The exclusion of ComCare recipients will take effect on July 1, while that of defaulting HDB tenants will take effect on Aug 1.
Gambling participation rates among the low-income are lower than the national average, according to a 2011 survey conducted by the National Council on Problem Gambling.
The gambling participation rate was 36 per cent for those with no income; 43 per cent for those who earn up to $999; and 46 per cent for those who earn between $1,000 and $1,999. Those who earn $4,000 and above had the highest participation rate at 61 per cent.
However, the survey showed a small but increasing proportion of low-income gamblers betting large amounts, of more than $1,000 a month on average.
But, while low-income earners might not be more susceptible to gambling addiction, they will be hardest hit if they do, said addiction psychiatrist Munidasa Winslow.
"If you're in the upper economic strata and you lose money, you might just forgo one of your holidays every year.
"But, if you're living below the poverty line, you might just have to forgo a meal," said Dr Winslow.
The latest exclusions are part of the Third-Party Casino Exclusion, which is administered by the National Council on Problem Gambling.
They are in addition to the 28,000 people already excluded, who comprise undischarged bankrupts and people on long-term public assistance and special grants.
The Ministry for Community Development, Youth and Sports said it is undertaking a review of the relevant legislation and regulations, together with other government agencies.
Mr Chan reiterated that housing type does not reflect one's susceptibility to gambling addiction. "You have to look at the issue holistically.
We don't judge people by their income levels," he said.
