She was first in line yesterday, arriving at 6.40am at the Singapore Science Centre, before dawn broke.
For 11-year-old Thulani Keyura Dharmasena, a Primary 5 pupil at De La Salle School, it was exciting to be able to witness a rare celestial phenomenon.
Accompanied by her mother, Mrs Aruni Dharmasena, 39, as well as her classmate, Grace Wong, 11, Thulani was among 3,000 skygazers who turned up to watch the planet Venus transit across the face of the Sun.
Mrs Dharmasena, a housewife, explained why she took her daughter to the Science Centre: "Nowadays, kids spend too much time on their iPads. I wanted to expose her to nature and get some knowledge."
Elsewhere, about 100 skygazers parked their telescopes in the field of the sports recreation centre at the National University of Singapore in the morning to witness the once-in-a-lifetime event.
Venus slides directly between the Earth and the Sun twice in a century, with the two occurrences separated by eight years. The last transit occurred in 2004, and scientists predict that the next pair of sightings will not be for another 105 years.
The transit occurred from 6.15am to 12.45pm here yesterday, and was visible from around 8am onwards.
Although rain clouds threatened to rain on the crowd's parade, the sky cleared at around 11am, for skygazers to witness a beauty spot on the Sun before the window of opportunity passed.
They filed onto a lawn at the Science Centre and took turns to peek through the 15 telescopes - equipped with solar filters - at the Sun and its "mole".
The spectacle was not just about pretty pictures, though.
Associate Professor Lim Tit Meng, the Science Centre's chief executive, hopes that the celestial phenomenon will stimulate people's interest in understanding planetary movements.
Citing the fact that science can now accurately pinpoint the date of the transit, he said it can help many understand how the universe is governed by physical laws.
He said: "It makes you realise how insignificant you are. The universe can continue functioning for a long time, but human life is short."
gerrardl@sph.com.sg
