The taxi driver who was involved in a traffic accident with a red Ferrari and a motorcycle on Saturday morning has been declared brain dead.
Doctors told Shin Min Daily News that 52-year-old Mr Cheng Teck Hock was in a serious condition and that they had asked the family to be prepared for the worst.
In the event that he gets better and lives, he may 'become a vegetable'.
His wife told the Chinese daily that Mr Cheng was a night relief driver and did not return home even though it was very late.
Mr Cheng's family thought he had visited some friends, and did not expect the police to notify them of the accident.
Although he had two emergency medical procedures done on him, he was still in a serious medical condition as he had serious brain hemmorhaege and could not go under the knife.
He also had broken bones which pierced his lungs and had to depend on a breathing machine.
Chances of him reviving were very slim. Doctors gave him medicine to keep his heart pumping.
A relative told Shin Min Daily News that his heart rate was faster than normal. And that he could become a 'vegetable' if he survived.
Police officers who notified the family of the accident told them that the accident victim's face was so swollen that he could only be identified by a mole on his nose.
They identified him at the hospital by his clothing and personal belongings.
The accident happened one week after Mr Cheng's 52nd birthday.
The accident had occurred in the wee hours of Saturday at the junction of Rochor Road and Victoria Street.
It involved a red Ferrari driven by Mr Ma Chi, a taxi driven by Mr Cheng and a motorcycle. Two people were killed and three others were injured.
Witnesses say that the Ferrari crashed into Mr Cheng's taxi when it ran a red light, causing the taxi to hit a passing motorcycle.
The impact was so hard that the taxi's engine was found 30m away from the vehicle, reported Shin Min Daily News.
Police and SCDF received calls about the accident at about 4.15am.
Drivers of both vehicles were trapped and had to be extricated by SCDF personnel.
Mr Ma Chi, 31, was pronounced dead at the scene by the paramedics.
The female passenger in the Ferrari, in her 20s, and Mr Cheng sustained head injuries. The motorcyclist, in his 20s, sustained spinal injuries.
All three of them were sent to Tan Tock Seng Hospital.
The taxi's passenger, a 41-year-old Japanese woman, was found unconscious and died at the Singapore General Hospital, reported The Straits Times.
The wife of Mr Ma Chi, the driver who died in a traffic accident on Saturday after his red Ferrari crashed into a taxi, wants to know the identity of the woman who was in the car with him.
Lianhe Wanbao reported Sunday that the distraught wife, 29-year-old Ms Ting Ting, had asked reporters about the female passenger, who is said to be a young woman in her 20s.
She suffered from serious head injuries in the crash.
Ms Ting Ting said her husband was an introverted person who liked to drive at night as there was less traffic.
Mr Ma Chi had just returned from a trip to Hong Kong, and liked to meet up with friends after business trips.
When Ms Ting Ting learnt of the accident and that there was a young, female passenger in the car, she was surprised.
She asked who the female passenger was, and which hospital she was warded at.
However, she said she trusted her husband because he was a loving father and husband.
She also said that it was normal for someone to send a friend home after meeting up with them.
Ms Ting Ting said she did not expect such an accident to happen so soon after their wedding anniversary. She was also expecting another child.
The accident had occurred in the wee hours of Saturday at the junction of Rochor Road and Victoria Street.
It involved a red Ferrari driven by Mr Ma Chi, a taxi and a motorcycle. Two people were killed and three others were injured.
Witnesses say that the Ferrari crashed into a taxi when it ran a red light, causing the taxi to hit a passing motorcycle.
The impact was so hard that the taxi's engine was found 30m away from the vehicle, reported Shin Min Daily News.
Police and SCDF received calls about the accident at about 4.15am.
Drivers of both vehicles were trapped and had to be extricated by SCDF personnel.
Mr Ma Chi, 31, was pronounced dead at the scene by the paramedics.
The female passenger in the Ferrari, in her 20s, and the cabby, in his 40s, sustained head injuries. The motorcyclist, in his 20s, sustained spinal injuries.
All three of them were sent to Tan Tock Seng Hospital.
The taxi's passenger, a woman in her 20s, was found unconscious and died at the Singapore General Hospital, reported The Straits Times.
According to the English daily, Mr Ma first came to Singapore four years ago with his wife and child.
Friends said he was a hard-working and righteous person who worked as a financial investor. He was also applying for permanent residency in Singapore.
Mr Ma's family members were spotted at the mortuary on Saturday morning.
His mother needed relatives to support her into the morgue and was extremely distressed. She was seen falling to the ground and crying before she entered, said Shin Min Daily News.
She kept calling out her son's name as well.
The police are investigating the accident and are appealing for eye-witnesses to call its hotline at 1800-5471818.
paullim@sph.com.sg
