Employers of foreign maids may soon expect to receive a report on how their domestic helper performed in a mandatory safety course.
That is one of several changes being explored in a review of safety training for foreign domestic workers who arrive here for the first time, the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) said yesterday.
Employers currently receive only a certificate as proof that their maid has attended and passed the safety course.
But should the change be implemented, details of the maid's performance during the course, such as her strengths and weaknesses, will be given to her employer, too.
During the four-hour course, which the ministry started in 2004, maids are taught safety procedures when carrying out household chores.
For example, they learn that when hanging out laundry in high-rise buildings, they should avoid overloading the bamboo poles, and avoid leaning out of the window.
They are also taught to use extendable cleaning equipment when cleaning ceiling lights and windows, to minimise the risk of falling.
MOM said it is timely to review safety awareness - six maids fell to their deaths while cleaning windows in the first three months of the year.
For the whole of last year, there were only four such fatalities and, in 2010, there were eight cases.
MOM said that in the last five years, it had prosecuted nine employers for failing to ensure their maids' safety.
Said Filipina Zenaidah Lopez, 41, who has been working here for the past seven years: "It will be safer for us, because employers will know what we can do or cannot do."
While maid agencies contacted welcomed the proposed change, some said it could affect employer- maid relations.
Said Nation Employment director Gary Chin: "If the maid gets a low test score, employers will have the perception that she cannot perform well."
Dr Noorashikin Abdul Rahman, vice-president of the foreign-worker advocacy group, Transient Workers Count Too, said the report would give the employer a better understanding on their maid. But it could also be used to end her contract.
More details on the measures to fine-tune the safety course are expected by the middle of the year.
