It is important that traditional-media platforms do not lose sight of their key strengths, even as the media industry adapts to the online playing field, said Dr Yaacob Ibrahim, Minister for Information, Communications and the Arts (Mica).
He was speaking at a lunch- time talk organised by the Singapore Press Club, held at the Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel yesterday.
He urged the mainstream media to maintain its credibility, as its relevance and growth would be determined by it.
Praising traditional-media journalists for their dedication towards fair and accurate reporting, Dr Yaacob added that this has led to to a generally positive perception of the media here.
However, as many young Singaporeans are increasingly turning to online sources, the traditional media has to strengthen its online efforts, he said.
While traditional media has done well in adapting to online platforms, competition from alternative new media brings expectations of higher standards, he said. This is where traditional media will help readers to "separate the wheat from the chaff", said Dr Yaacob.
He said: "In this aspect, our major companies, which have an established presence, can set the right tone online as well, with good practices of information sharing and moderation on the various online platforms."
Recognising the strengths of social media, he said that the public sector also has to adapt to what it has to offer.
As of last December, the ministries and government agencies have set up more than 140 Facebook initiatives, 60 YouTube channels, 60 Twitter accounts and 30 mobile applications.
Said Dr Yaacob: "New media has allowed the Government to serve the public better."
But social media has its downside, in terms of the ease and speed at which information is shared online. This means that rumours, distortions and hoaxes can spread easily within a short time and it is up to the Government and community to work together to tackle these problems, he added.
He said that Singapore has adopted the "two-pronged approach" of having legislative measures and public education to enable a safe and enriching online experience for its people.
"There are laws in place which can deal with those who cause harm," said Dr Yaacob.
