SINGAPORE - It is the biggest scandal to rock the charity sector in Singapore.
With $24 million alleged to have been moved to finance the pop music career of the wife of City Harvest Church (CHC) founder Kong Hee, the sum easily eclipses past cases.
It's bigger than the $12 million lawsuit filed by the National Kidney Foundation management in 2006 against individuals, including its former chief executive officer, Mr T.T. Durai.
And more recently, the founder of Ren Ci hospital, Ming Yi was convicted of misappropriating $50,000.
But the CHC scandal, which implicates Kong, 47, and four of his staff, is not just huge in terms of monetary amounts.
With a flamboyant pastor and four other CHC members involved in an alleged misuse of some $50 million - $24 million in alleged sham bonds and another $26.6 million in "round-tripping" allegedly to cover the first sum - the case has attracted international media attention.
Which isn't that surprising as CHC's website states that Kong "is highly sought after by churches and corporations around the world to speak in their congregation and conferences".
It also revealed that CHC has affiliate churches in countries like Australia, Taiwan and Indonesia.
The case against Kong, who started the church with a cell group in an HDB flat and turned it into a mega-million-dollar establishment, has been reported in US news website Huffington Post and Malaysian newspaper Star.
And journalists and crew members from international news agencies joined the local media at the Subordinate Courts to cover the high-profile case on Wednesday.
About 200 people also turned up outside the court to show their support to Kong and his wife, Ms Ho Yeow Sun, 42, with some arriving at 8am, an hour before proceedings were scheduled to begin.
Like his fellow four co-accused, Kong and Ms Ho were surrounded by the supporters, who jostled with the media when they turned up at 8.50am.
The couple were, as always, fashionably dressed.
She was dressed all in black and he wore a long-sleeved shirt with trousers. The oversized sunglasses he donned when leaving the Criminal Investigation Department building on Tuesday evening were gone.
An online search revealed that Ms Ho owned an Ed Hardy flagship store and three other multi-label boutiques.
Having turned up early, the CHC supporters filled Court Room 26, which is about the size of a basketball court. Some were left waiting outside when the courtroom filled quickly.
The last time it was filled to capacity was in April, when 44 men, including a former school principal, were charged with having commercial sex with an underage prostitute.
District Judge Lim Tse Haw started the proceedings at around 9am and the five accused persons were later called to the dock.
All of them looked stoic and avoided eye contact with one another as they stood together before the judge.
Kong, represented by lawyer Edwin Tong, faces three charges.
He is accused of three counts of being part of a conspiracy to commit criminal breach of trust by an agent.
His charges involve the $24 million allegedly used to fund the music career of Ms Ho, who uses the stage name Sun Ho.
The court heard that Kong and his alleged accomplices had surrendered their passports to the authorities and they were released on $500,000 bail each.
The other four accused were also charged with being part of a conspiracy to commit criminal breach of trust by an agent.
Three of them also faced additional charges of being involved in a conspiracy to commit falsification of accounts.
It was all over in about 10 minutes.
But more drama erupted later outside the Subordinate Courts building.
Kong's supporters formed a protective wall around him and the other four co-accused as they left the court building.
Members of the media were elbowed and photographers had their shots blocked by supporters, who waved their hands in front of the cameras.
Responding later, a CHC spokesman told The New Paper in an e-mail that it was sorry to hear about the incident and added that it does not condone aggression of any kind.
The spokesman also said that the members had turned up of their own accord to show their support.
"As you would agree, the situation was chaotic, and some may have reacted negatively to all the pushing and shoving around the photographers' area," the spokesman added.
"We will have a word with our members about this."
All five accused will be back in court on July 25.
If convicted on each charge, Kong can be jailed for life or up to 20 years and fined.
ashaffiq@sph.com.sg
