A new curriculum to develop strong character and a positive self-image in youth was announced by Temasek Polytechnic at a forum yesterday.
Called YouthMax, the programme is targeted at teenagers aged 14 to 18, and is being offered to schools here.
It will likely be rolled out from July to those schools which choose to integrate it into the curriculum.
The programme was developed by American education expert and author John Maxwell, and launched worldwide three weeks ago.
Dr Maxwell, who founded leadership-develop- ment organisations Equip and The John Maxwell Company, has sold over 19 million books. He has also trained more than five million leaders world- wide.
Currently, there are 21 people in Singapore who are certified to teach the programme, with three from Temasek Polytechnic's Centre for Character and Leadership Education. They had to undergo a three-day workshop in the United States to acquire the necessary skills.
The centre - which was set up in 1996 to promote character development - will be the touch point for individuals and schools looking to find out more about the programme. It will also coordinate the implementation of the programme in schools.
YouthMax focuses on four key topics - standing up to bullies, moving forward after failure, developing a positive self-image, and developing a strong personal character.
Each topic has about five learning points, and can be taught through a classroom session or incorporated into co-curricular activities.
Temasek Polytechnic announced the programme at its sixth character and leadership education forum, with Dr Maxwell as a speaker. The two-day forum, which ends today, has attracted about 750 educators and students, the largest turnout so far.
The annual forum aims to bring together educators, trainers and character-education advocates in Singapore and South-east Asia to learn and work together towards the development of character and leadership in youth.
Speaking at the event, Minister for Education Heng Swee Keat reiterated the importance of character and leadership building among youth.
He pointed out that youth are "buffeted by the forces of changing technology and intense global competition" and, hence, "traditional social structures are breaking down" across the world and in Singapore.
"So, the more deeply our youth internalise good values, the better they are prepared for a fast- changing world," said Mr Heng.
"(Good values) will give them the inner strength and confidence, and the broader social and global awareness, to make the right choices for themselves, and to play a part in contributing to the broader community."
And to inculcate such values in students, he noted that there is a need for leaders who have a clear sense of purpose, who care about the students and are able to earn their trust. This will inspire students to contribute their best to improve the lives of those around them, he added.
Mr Heng also stressed that it is the care and understanding of leaders, as well as their ability to inspire others to do what is right - and not their position or title - that defines good leadership.
The Ministry of Education also hopes to develop young leaders who are "pro-active in identifying community needs, and initiating action together with their peers to make a difference to the lives of others", he added.
