President Tony Tan Keng Yam will make an official visit to Germany from June 24 to July 3 at the invitation of the Federal Government of Germany.
This will be the first official visit to Germany by a Singapore Head of State.
President Tony Tan will visit Munich, Berlin and Lindau, a town by Lake Constance in the southern German federal state of Bavaria.
The official visit to Germany is made in conjunction with President Tan's attendance at the 62nd Lindau Nobel Laureates Meeting, where he will be inducted into the Honorary Senate of the Foundation Lindau Nobelprizewinners Meetings at Lake Constance, which funds the Lindau Meetings.
In Berlin, President Tan will be accorded a ceremonial welcome. President Tan will also meet with Federal President Dr Joachim Gauck, Federal Chancellor Dr Angela Merkel and Governing Mayor of Berlin Mr Klaus Wowereit.
In addition, President Tan will visit the Max Delbr&uuml;ck Centre of Molecular Medicine and attend a reception to meet Singaporeans living in Germany.
In Munich, which President Tan will visit prior to Berlin, President Tan will meet with Minister-President of Bavaria Mr Horst Seehofer and Lord Mayor of Munich Mr Christian Ude.
State Minister and Head of the State Chancellery of Bavaria Mr Thomas Kreuzer will also host President to an official lunch. In addition, President Tan will visit Siemens, Infineon Technologies and Technical University Munich.
In Lindau, apart from attending the Nobel Laureates Meeting, President Tan will also grace the International Day dinner that Singapore has been given the privilege of hosting as part of the programme for the 62nd Lindau Nobel Laureates Meeting.
Mrs Mary Tan will accompany President Tan in Lindau. For the official programmes in Munich and Berlin legs, President's delegation will include Minister of State for Health and Mayor of the South West Singapore District Dr Amy Khor, Members of Parliament Ms Foo Mee Har and Mr Vikram Nair and officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, National Research Foundation, Economic Development Board and Monetary Authority of Singapore.
