SINGAPORE - People's Action Party's (PAP) Mr Desmond Choo may have lost the Hougang by-election, but he was up early Sunday morning to thank his supporters for a heartening improvement in votes garnered as compared to the 2011 General Election (GE).
Choo lost to Worker's Party's Png Eng Huat 62.1 per cent to 37.9 per cent of the 23,368 registered electors in Hougang.
This was a 2.7 per cent increase from last year's 35.2 per cent at GE.
"Although the results did not fall our way, I still remain very encouraged that we have improved in the percentage," Choo told RazorTV.
Believing that a process of change has begun, he said that the PAP team had "reversed a downward trend", which he considered "a big positive".
"We also see that a lot of people have started to believe in our new vision of a new beginning," he added.
To the 1,417 who did not cast their votes, Choo also thanked them for their intended votes.
Attibuting the loss of votes to the start of school holidays and planned vacations, he said: "I know that many residents came to me, and said that they were very disappointed that they couldn't cast their vote, because they were going off either for work or because they had planned for vacation ahead.
"So it could have really swung either way, so very hard to make a stand on that, but I still want to thank all of them who didn't vote but who actually wanted to vote for us."
Despite the defeat, he said that he will still continue with his plans for Hougang.
"I've started on the journey to press for a new market and new commercial developments in Hougang before the by-elections. And I've always said that it is regardless of what the by-election results are. It is not politically driven," Mr Choo explained.
He will also be assisting the newly elected MP for Hougang, Mr Png Eng Huat, with projects for the future of Hougang.
"As long as the projects are sound, good, practicable, and most importantly in the best interest for residents, I will be there to try my best to support," he said.
