If you consider yourself someone who cares for the environment, you'll get the chance to literally walk the talk on Sept 2.
As part of this year's Singapore Green One, or Singapore G1, an annual event organised by the Singapore Environment Council (SEC) to promote green and healthy living, about 10,000 participants will take a 5km walk, while 200 others will cycle about 25km, all converging at the Marina Barrage for a carnival.
Said the SEC's executive director, Mr Jose Raymond: "We want to get people out and understand that walking a little bit more or cycling a little more can make a huge difference in reducing carbon footprint."
Registration is free and began on Friday.
The theme is Live Green, which marries the protection of the environment with healthy living.
And the SEC is walking the talk by adopting a zero waste policy while organising this large-scale event.
Mr Raymond said the SEC will use only reusable or recyclable materials for the event with minimal waste.
He added: "Whatever we use will be recycled. At the water points, we will ensure that only paper cups will be given out because they are easier to recycle. When the participants reach the end point, what we give out to them would have to be absolutely essential for them to use."
Bottled water and food given out will have recyclable packaging and recycling bins will be available to ensure minimal waste.
Other measures to prevent waste include the minimal use of posters and banners.
By organising a carbon-neutral event, Mr Raymond said the SEC hopes to demonstrate to other organisations and corporations that it is possible to organise cost-effective events with minimal waste.
Walkathon participants will be split into two groups, each group taking a different route.
There will be two flag-off points - Lavender MRT Station and Stadium MRT Station.
Some 200 cyclists, led by the Love Cycling SG group, will begin their journey from Tampines MRT station.
They will all converge at the Marina Barrage, where a host of activities await them.
The guest-of-honour is Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean, who is also the chairman of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Climate Change.
The National Climate Change Secretariat will launch a nationwide exhibition on climate change at the Marina Barrage in conjunction with Singapore G1.
And the public will have a chance to try out the new Nissan Leaf, the world's first mass-produced fully electric vehicle which does not emit greenhouse gases.
Nissan is a partner of Singapore G1.
So far, 15 units of the Nissan Leaf have been sold and registered under the tax-exempted Transport Technology Innovation and Development Scheme (Tides) for corporate users.
Mr Ron Lim, the general manager of Tan Chong Motor Sales, Nissan's agent here, said: "This is an excellent opportunity for the public to try out this transformational technology that will change the way people drive, use and power their vehicles."
He added that this was in line with the SEC's efforts to push for a reduction of the carbon footprint.
Other highlights of Singapore G1 include a corporate trishaw race and a soapbox car competition with participants from voluntary welfare organisations.
There will also be a green music festival and a green art exhibition and photography competition as part of the festivities lined up at the carnival.
Singapore G1 2012 Registration: Free
When: Sept 2
What: The walkathon will begin at two flag-off points Lavender MRT Station and Stadium MRT Station.
Cyclists will start from Tampines MRT station.
They will all finish at the Marina Barrage.
Facebook Page: www.facebook.com/SingaporeG1
