SINGAPORE - Police arrested 10 motorists for drink driving in a three-hour islandwide anti-drink driving operation on March 31.
It was the third such operation this year.
But some drivers still didn't heed the warning.
Last Sunday, Mr Bobby Elfian, 28, a safety officer, was arrested for suspected drink driving and causing death by a rash act.
He was allegedly behind the wheel of a Toyota Vios that crashed into a stationary bus near Marina Centre Bus Terminal.
His wife, 25, who was in the passenger seat next to him died in the crash, while he suffered facial and hand injuries.
In the first three months of this year, 670 persons were arrested for drink-driving offences.
In the same period, one person died and 17 were injured in drink-driving accidents.
Mr Hri Kumar Nair, chairman of the Government Parliamentary Committee for Law and Home Affairs, said there has been much publicity on the issue, coupled with increased enforcement efforts from the police and severe penalties for offenders.
But Mr Nair said the issue also requires the involvement of others, including the owners or managers of establishments which serve alcohol.
He added: "There should be an obligation on them to check whether customers who have had too much intend to drive, and to take reasonable steps to stop them from doing so.
"This can include administering breathalyser tests."
Is it time to take it one step further?
In the US and Australia, owners, managers or employees of establishments that serve alcohol can be held responsible for selling drinks to an intoxicated person.
Nightspots The New Paper contacted said they have already taken steps to curb drink-driving.
For instance, Zouk staff are regularly reminded to be responsible and to stop serving more alcohol to patrons who are obviously drunk and to encourage them to drink water instead, said Mr Benny Heng, director of operations at Zouk.
The club's in-house team of security personnel and car valets are also trained to look out for intoxicated patrons and advise them to take a cab or encourage them to use its in-house drive-home valet service.
Lawyer Gloria James of Gloria James-Civetta &amp; Co thinks that a law like the one in the US may be useful in discouraging drink-driving behaviour.
And if numbers continue to rise, Singapore should follow suit.
But criminal lawyer Foo Cheow Ming of law firm KhattarWong said he can foresee difficulties prosecuting such an offence if such a law is enacted here.
It may be difficult for a bartender to tell how drunk a person is, he said, adding: "How is he to test a patron? Who is to judge whether his assessment is good or bad?"
Mr Heng expressed similar reservations.
How do you enforce such a law here when patrons have a habit of club-hopping and may have started drinking even before going to the club?
"Having such a law will make it tough for clubs to sustain their business if they have to ask every customer if they are driving before serving them alcohol," he said.
Tougher laws may also not always have the desired impact.
After the amended Road Traffic Act came into operation in April 1990, statistics showed that there was at least one driver charged in court every day for drink driving between April and June that year.
Traffic police figures also showed that there was a 90 per cent increase in non-accident drink-driving cases in May 1990 compared with the same month in the previous year.
This came as a surprise because under the amended law, those convicted faced stiffer punishments like summary suspensions and mandatory jail terms for repeat offenders.
Towards the end of 1990 the number of accidents involving drunk drivers did fall, from 101 in 1989 to 62 by December 1990, but the number of offenders caught for drink driving went up from 218 in 1989 to 430 by December 1990.
Mr Heng said there is a growing awareness among patrons of the risk of drink driving.
He added: "These days, people are more open to car pooling and having a designated sober driver amongst them."
Ultimately, said Mr Chia Boon Teck, co-managing partner of Chia Wong LLP, the consumer must bear responsibility for his own behaviour.
He said: "It makes more sense to make the consumer responsible for his own behaviour than to make the retailer and manufacturer the consumers' guardian (and ) keeper."
Anyone convicted of drink driving will be disqualified from driving for at least a year.
They will also lose their driving licences and have to retake the theory and practical driving tests to obtain their driving licences again.
First-time offenders can be fined between $1,000 and $5,000 or jailed for up to six months.
Repeat offenders may be punished with a maximum fine of $30,000 and a mandatory jail term of up to three years.
They may also receive up to six strokes of the cane, should death or injury occur.
