IT WILL take at least another year before any re-tendering process for the development of the land for the proposed Changi Motorsports Hub can proceed.
By then, it is possible that the land may not be used for a motorsports hub after all. It is also possible that there might not even be a re-tendering process, if no viable ideas to develop the land are tabled.
Such scenarios could play out as the Singapore Sports Council (SSC) embarks on a Request For Information (RFI) exercise from July to the end of the year.
The exercise seeks to assess the level of interest and ideas among potential investors for a motorsports hub, or other sports and lifestyle concepts, at the 41ha site in Changi.
Upon completion of the exercise, the SSC will decide whether to continue with the motorsports-hub project. Any re-tendering process would be launched only in the third quarter of next year.
SSC announced the exercise as it signed the deed of termination on various issues related to the land on Tuesday with SG Changi, the consortium which failed to deliver the motorsports hub after winning the initial tender in March 2010.
SSC chief executive Lim Teck Yin said: "The benefit of conducting the RFI exercise is that it allows the SSC to more accurately gauge the market's views on the range of ideas and feasible business models.
"We are keeping our options open for different sports-related concepts, whether motorsports or non-motorsports, to emerge."
The SSC will take back the land from SG Changi today, officially ending an unsuccessful episode that saw the consortium run into numerous financial issues.
It encountered various problems, including construction delays due to a lack of funds and a corruption probe into alleged irregularities in the tender process.
Lim acknowledged that the SSC could have done more stringent checks on the financial strength of the consortium before awarding the tender bid.
Still, he did not believe that the public's confidence in the SSC's ability to deliver large- scale development projects on time has been shaken.
"There was criticism that we could have pulled the plug earlier on SG Changi," he said.
"But at all times, we have tried to safeguard public interest: No public funds were spent, this was purely a private-sector project."
