Lawyer Mark Goh, 45, has been cycling to work for the past 10 years, and he's had his fair share of close shaves.
But what worries him is that recent fatalities have occurred not on busy roads, but on quieter and wider thoroughfare.
"The cyclist who died on Changi Coast Road - this was in broad daylight at 10.30am - and it's a spacious road.
"Last week, a van knocked two cyclists, killing one, on Senoko South Road - a two-by-two-lane industrial road.
"I would like to see speed traps and cameras installed at these quieter roads and big signs warning road users of these speed cameras. Also, isolated spots should be brightly lit," he said.
But a more permanent solution would be an awareness campaign that gets motorists to recognise cyclists are road users too, he said.
"Unlike in Europe, drivers here don't slow down when they see you; they don't respect you.
"The doctor who knocked and killed cyclist Benjamin Mok got four weeks' jail. I think legislation needs to be changed to provide for longer-term imprisonment," Mr Goh said.
Marketing manager Michelle Teo, 36, felt an awareness campaign, like the OCBC Cycle Singapore's safe cycling campaign launched in 2010 to get drivers to give cyclists a 1.5m berth when overtaking, would be more effective than legislation.
"I'm not in favour of bicycle lanes because some of our roads are narrow, and I don't want to be confined to park connectors, so a better way would be to change the mindset of drivers," she said.
Even so, some cyclists question the effectiveness of the campaign.
"It needs government enforcement to work. And an intermittent green line would help guide drivers to keep away from cyclists," said production manager Mohamed Amat, 49, who cycles to work from Bishan to Jurong Island.
"They can enter the space when there are no cyclists," he added.
According to statistics from the Traffic Police, the top cause of road accidents in Singapore which resulted in death or injuries, is inattentiveness.
Between 2007 and last year, "failing to keep a proper lookout" consistently accounted for about one-third of all causes.
This was followed by "failing to have proper control" of a vehicle (18.5 per cent) and "failing to give way to traffic with right of way" (13.2 per cent).
