SINGAPORE - Selected hawker centres at Geylang Serai will now offer healthier food choices without compromising on price, taste or enjoyment.
Working with the Health Promotion Board (HPB), at least three hawker centres around Geylang Serai have started using whole-grain noodles, brown rice bee hoon, healthier oil and salt, and selling drinks with lower sugar content.
The participating stalls serving traditional Malay dishes such as mee siam, mee rebus, nasi lemak and nasi padang are located at:
- Eunos Crescent Block 4A Market and Food Centre - Haig Road Market and Cooked Food Centre, and - Geylang Serai Market and Food Centre
To date, about 75 per cent of the stalls at Eunos Crescent Block 4A Market and Food Centre have switched to healthier ingredients and cooking methods. Over at Haig Road Market and Cooked Food Centre and Geylang Serai Market and Food Centre, 60 per cent and 30 per cent respectively have done so.
In addition to linking stall owners to suppliers of healthier ingredients such as fat oil that is less saturated and salt with lower sodium to ensure food prices remain the same, and advising cooks on healthier cooking methods and serving sizes, HPB also provided participating stalls with menu boards to showcase the lower calorie count of their food and drinks.
Said Associate Professor Fatimah Lateef, Grassroots Adviser for Geylang Serai and Member of Parliament for Marine Parade GRC: "The incidences of obesity and chronic illnesses such as hypertension, high blood cholesterol, ischaemic heart disease and stroke are highest for the Malay community. One reason for this is the community's dietary choice and lifestyle decisions.
"Lower salt, unsaturated oil, whole-grain and wheat or brown rice substitutes can be just as delicious when supplemented with flavours from lime, spices and chilli."
To help increase demand for healthier foods at these hawker centres, HPB will be conducting regular roadshows to provide free samples of healthier food as well as food coupons to use at participating healthier food stalls.
HPB has been working with grassroots organisations and mosques to introduce healthy cooking classes and healthy supermarket tours, in a second strategy to fight obesity.
