The trendy bags used to contain the funpack items for this year's National Day Parade (NDP) are no slouch in the functionality department.
Made out of polyester, the red duffle-like bags are water resistant and can carry up to 6kg.
With no exterior pockets, the bags are multi-purpose and can be carried in three different ways - as a backpack, a sling bag or a hand-carry.
The bags feature one of four messages based on the following keywords: identity, spirit, love or home. The messages are inspired by the theme of Singapore's 47th celebration, "Loving Singapore, Our Home".
On the funpack's design, Lieutenant-Colonel Lau Hui Boon, chairman of the NDP 2012 logistics and finance committee, said at a media briefing yesterday: "It's a clean design which we hope more Singaporeans will like and carry beyond NDP."
This year's funpack was designed by nine students from Temasek Poly- technic's Product and Industrial Design, and Visual Communication courses.
Their design proposal was chosen in December last year from among 20 submissions the NDP organisers received.
Funpacks are traditionally one highlight for parade-goers, filled with memorabilia, snacks and party knick-knacks.
This year's offering contains 27 items, including a scarf with "Singapore" sewn on it, an "I love SG" torch, and an illustrated lyric book of national songs.
Also in the bag of goodies is a bandana which comes in three designs.
The patterns on these large kerchiefs are themed "Heartland Symphony" and are created by the Temasek Polytechnic students as well. They feature motifs like a coffee cup, a kite, an ice cream and a playground swing - icons synonymous with living in Singapore's heartland.
"We took quite a number of surveys and interviews, asking Singaporeans of different ages what their impressions of Singapore are and what sentimental values they hold on to," said Mr Jarron Issac Tham, 18, one of the students involved.
Like the bag and bandana, the NDP organisers hope the funpack items will be re-used in other ways after the parade. For example, they said the "Singapore" scarf can be used at future regional and national sporting events, while an "I love SG" snap band doubles as a ruler.
Funpacks will be given out to spectators at the parade and previews, as well as pupils at the three National Education Shows.
