SINGAPORE - The woman who is believed to have been in a "sex-for-business" deal with former Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) chief Ng Boon Gay has been named in court today.
She is Cecillia Sue Siew Nang, who was an employee of two IT vendors, Hitachi and Oracle, when the sexual trysts took place.
Ng, 46, allegedly obtained sexual gratification on four occasions from Sue between June 2011 and December 2011.
According to the AFP, the charges state Ng had oral sex with Sue four times, twice when she was a sales manager with Hitachi Data Systems Pte Ltd and twice when she worked for Oracle Corporation Singapore Pte Ltd.
The Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (CPIB) said in a statement that the trysts are believed to have been in exchange for helping to 'further the business interests of the relevant IT vendor, in respect of that vendor's dealings with CNB'.
Ng pleaded not guilty to all four charges. He is currently out on a $10,000 bail.
Sue joins the other three women who have been named in court regarding the high profile case.
The three are Esther Goh Tok Mui, Lee Wei Hoon and Pang Chor Mui, who are believed to have traded sexual favours with former Singapore Civil Defence (SCDF) chief Peter Lim Sin Pang in return for him favouring their companies during IT-related tenders held by the SCDF.
At the time of the offences, Pang was a general manager at Nimrod Engineering, Lee was a director at Singapore Radiation Centre, and Goh was a director of business development at NCS. Both Nimrod Engineering and NCS were then vendors to the SCDF while SRC was a potential vendor.
Miss Pang allegedly performed oral sex on Lim on May 2, 2010, in a carpark near the Singapore Indoor Stadium.
Lee allegedly performed oral sex on Lim at a carpark at Big Splash in East Coast Park on Nov 23 last year. They also had sex some time between Oct 18 and 21 in a hotel in Paris, France.
Goh, who is single, is alleged to have had sex with Lim seven times between April 20 and Nov 13 last year. The first time was in a carpark near the Marina Bay Golf Course.
They had sex twice in Lim's apartment in Tanjong Rhu, and another tryst in a carpark near the Singapore Indoor Stadium.
They also had sex three times in a Clementi flat.
The word "obtained" used in court documents in both cases indicate that the men were the likely parties that initiated the sexual propositions.
Lim is facing a total of 10 charges and has yet to make a plea. If found guilty, the three women may also be charged.
