Lecturer Adeline Lee suffered from a skin rash that covered her entire body earlier this year, and often had questions about her condition between visits to the doctor.
The busy 30-year-old professional was relieved to find out that she did not need to make an appoint- ment with her doctor to clear up her doubts.
She was able to send queries to her doctor from the convenience of her home or work computer, via a new Web portal set up by the National Skin Centre (NSC).
She said: "I received prompt replies from the doctor and it really helped to ease my worries. It also saved me a lot of unnecessary...travel to the centre."
The Patient Health Portal is touted as the first of its kind by a health-care institution here. The free service gives patients access to their medical records, such as medication history, allergies, procedures done at NSC and appointment dates.
The portal also provides links to information related to patients' medication or medical conditions such as acne and fungal infections.
During the portal's launch yesterday, Dr Steven Thng of the NSC said he occasionally encountered patients who took time off from work just to ask a few questions, such as the minor side effects of medication.
Dr Thng, who is a consultant dermatologist, added: "I thought that if we could provide them with an avenue to contact us directly, that would save them the time and effort needed to come all the way here."
Patients will be able to contact doctors, nurses and pharmacists for non-urgent queries, and get replies within four working days.
Dr Thng said the portal also helps relieve doctors' workload, enabling them to attend to patients whose conditions really require an appointment.
With the portal, patients can download medical records easily instead of physically obtaining them from the centre, which usually takes up to a month.
The project cost about $100,000 and was piloted from January. About 200 patients have since regis- tered for an account with the portal.
The centre attends to an average of 1,200 patients daily and handled about 295,800 patients last year.
Dr Thng said that over 90 per cent of patients who signed up with the portal typically download blood-test results or information leaflets from the website.
Patients keen to use the portal will have to register for an account at billing or appointment counters in NSC. The account will be activated within 24 hours and patients can log on at www.myportal.nsc.gov.sg with their password.
The portal's database is encrypted, for patient confidentiality and security. The portal is monitored for abnormal activity, such as a sudden surge in usage of the portal.
Said Professor Chee Yam Cheng, chief executive of National Healthcare Group, which oversees NSC: "The increasing demand for quality health care from a diverse and informed population means that we need to cater...to the younger individuals who want information at their fingertips."
