Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) will be most affected if the wages of low-wage workers are increased rapidly, said Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong in his May Day rally speech yesterday.
He added that SMEs that are not very profitable would either experience rising costs and pass this on to their consumers, or retrench workers.
Mr Lee was responding for the first time to the recent proposal for "shock therapy" by the well-known economist and former chairman of the National Wages Council, Professor Lim Chong Yah, to raise wages of the lowest-income workers by 50 per cent over three years.
Mr Lee said: "I appreciate his good intentions, I share his concerns over this group of workers. But I do not agree with his drastic approach because the only realistic way to move is step by step, with wages and productivity going up in tandem...as fast as we can, as fast as it's possible."
The proposal stirred much debate after Prof Lim spoke about it during a public lecture organised by the Economic Society of Singapore last month.
Yesterday's event, held to commemorate Labour Day, saw some 1,600 participants, such as union leaders and labour-movement representatives, gather at Downtown East in Pasir Ris.
Mr Lee disagreed with the proposal, pointing to the 1980s when Singapore pushed up wages sharply and had "room" to do so. He said: "But even then, we ran into problems."
Mr Lee explained that in the 1980s, Singapore's economy was growing rapidly at 8 to 10 per cent a year. It also helped that the country's only competition then came from the "three little dragons" - South Korea, Hong Kong and Taiwan. China and India were not on the scene, he added.
And during that period, the labour market was tight as multinational companies such as Philips entered the labour market, creating thousands of jobs.
He said: "In 1985, when the winds changed, when the conditions turned difficult, we plunged into a very deep recession...We had to cut wages sharply...so that the economy could recover."
Mr Lee added: "Better aim for what is sustainable. Don't take a big risk with short-term jumps in wage."
Sustainable measures he cited include the $100-million government-funded Inclusive Growth Programme that encourages companies to raise productivity, by training staff, for instance.
The profit gains will then be passed on to employees, with some receiving wage increases.
Union leaders present echoed Mr Lee's stance on the wage proposal. Mr Mohd Rasi Taib, president of the National Transport Workers' Union, said: "If you ask any worker, they would jump high and be very happy. But it's not sustainable... Productivity and wage increases should move in tandem."
Mr Yeo Guat Kwang, NTUC lead for the hospitality and consumer business cluster, said: "As a unionist, of course we hope that salaries increase faster and (get) bigger."
He said that the reality of the situation must be taken into account, and called for a "more pragmatic approach" to be taken.
nggwen@sph.com.sg
Additional reporting by Daryll Nanayakara
