Asian states face multiple challenges in trying to balance strong economic links with an ascendant China and defence ties with the United States, Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen said on the last day of the 11th Shangri-La Dialogue yesterday.
Coupled with rising transnational risks, such as piracy and trafficking of drugs and people, a "re-think" of global governance is needed, he added.
"We will have to refresh and upgrade existing institutions, or even create new ones to respond effectively to emerging risks," said Dr Ng at the concluding plenary session of the annual event.
First, these institutions and strategies must lead to effective outcomes. He cited the Malacca Strait Patrols initiative - which has greatly reduced piracy in those waters - as a positive example.
The initiative, established in 2004 by Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia, is a set of cooperative security measures to counter maritime piracy and terrorism. Thailand joined the initiative in 2008.
Second, mutual trust must be engendered through transparency, equitable rules and practical cooperation, although Dr Ng noted that "mutual trust takes time and effort to develop".
Third, institutions and mechanisms that address security challenges must be inclusive and work for the common good.
He emphasised that the interests and aspirations of all stakeholders - both big and small states - have to be accommodated. An instance would be the Asean Defence Ministers' Meeting Plus (ADMM-Plus), which has brought together the Asean states and other Asia-Pacific stakeholders such as the US, Japan, China and Australia.
Dr Tim Huxley, executive director of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, felt that such platforms provide a forum "in which small and middle powers - Asean nations - can relate to the bigger players in Asia-Pacific security on a sovereign and equal basis".
He added that the ADMM-Plus and East Asia Summit - an annual forum of East Asian leaders and those of the United States and Russia - are seen by Asean states as "a useful way to integrate the larger powers" which "might cause challenges in the future".
For instance, "it's a way of socialising China into regional norms and predictable patterns of behaviour, as well as adherence to international law", he said.
This also explains why "international norms" and "established sets or rules" were constant refrains uttered by various defence ministers yesterday, he observed.
News reports show that Asia-Pacific nations, particularly traditional allies like Japan and the Philippines, welcome the announcement by the US of a "pivot to Asia" last year.
US Defence Secretary Leon Panetta announced two days ago that the US planned to assign about 60 per cent of its total naval resources to this part of the globe by 2020.
Yesterday, Reuters reported China's response to the plans as saying that it will "intensify its vigilance, but not lash back".
Other experts say that although historical precedence - the Cold War, for instance - show that the balance of power between two great powers can create stability, there might be potential flashpoints.
Associate Professor Bernard Loo, a military-studies expert of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in the Nanyang Technological University, cited one flashpoint last month when the Philippines was embroiled in a spat over the Scarborough shoal with China.
Dr Loo said that the severity of the matter depends on how the Philippines interprets its reinvigorated relationship with the US.
He said: "The danger is that the Philippines may drag the US into the dispute, although the US will refuse to be involved."
