Former Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) commissioner Peter Lim Sin Pang was charged yesterday with 10 counts of corruption.
He allegedly obtained sexual gratification from three women between May 2010 and last November in exchange for favouring their companies during IT-related tenders held by the SCDF.
The three women allegedly involved all held senior positions in their companies.
The following is a summary of their encounters, as listed in the charge sheets.
She is alleged to have performed oral sex on Lim on May 2, 2010, in a carpark near the Singapore Indoor Stadium (right).
Lim is alleged to have had sex with her some time between Oct 18 and 21 in a hotel in Paris, France.
Lee is also alleged to have performed oral sex on him at a carpark at Big Splash in East Coast Park (above) on Nov 23 last year.
She is alleged to have had sex with Lim on seven separate occasions between April and September last year.
On the first occasion, they are said to have had sex in a carpark near Marina Bay Golf Course on April 20.
The following month, they allegedly had sex again in an apartment in Tanjong Rhu.
On May 19, they allegedly had sex in a carpark near the Singapore Indoor Stadium.
Some time between Sept 3 and Sept 6, they allegedly had sex in a Tanjong Rhu apart- ment.
During the same period, they are said to have had sex twice in a Clementi flat.
They allegedly repeated the act in a Clementi flat on Sept 17 and Nov 13.
Lim is currently out on bail of $10,000 and his passport has been surrendered to the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (CPIB).
His case has been adjourned to July 5, when a pre-trial conference has been scheduled.
If convicted, he could be jailed up to five years and fined $100,000.
Lim, who is married, was arrested on Jan 4 by the CPIB, two weeks after former Central Narcotics Bureau director Ng Boon Gay, 44, was nabbed.
Both men were investigated under the Prevention of Corruption Act over allegations of &ldquo;serious personal misconduct&rdquo;.
Lim and Ng, who were government scholars, were suspended from duty on Jan 25. Six senior SCDF officers and employees of private IT firms were also questioned.
It is believed two other SCDF officers will be taken to court, said a Straits Times report. Ng has yet to be charged.
