SINGAPORE - 39-year-old man has been arrested in connection with a murder in Bukit Merah on Monday evening, police said.
The suspect is said to have surrendered himself to police hours after the incident.
The alleged weapon - a kitchen knife - was also recovered from the scene, reported Chinese evening newspaper Lianhe Wanbao.
The suspect is known to his colleagues as "Ah Khoon", and was said to have been chatting with the victim under a tree in Bukit Merah Lane 2 just before the incident.
The suspect is said to have worked as a motorcycle salesman at Southern Motor, one of the many motorcycle shops which line the one-way street.
The victim, who has been identified as Mr Firman Hakim, 25, sported dyed blond hair and was heavily tattooed.
Police said a call was received at about 6pm on Monday, reporting a fight at Block 1005, Bukit Merah Lane 2.
A Singapore Civil Defence Force spokesman said that Mr Firman had multiple open- wound injuries and was unconscious when taken to Alexandra Hospital.
He died at about 7.30pm.
While the relationship with his alleged assailant is unclear, workers at neighbouring shops told my paper that they had never seen Mr Firman before. They also noted that he did not ride a motorcycle.
The manager of a shop in the vicinity, who declined to be named, said that Mr Firman was about 1.65m tall and was of small build.
Employees of Southern Motor declined to comment on the incident or disclose information about the suspect. It is believed that the suspect is related to one of the shop's business partners.
The suspect has worked at Southern Motor for about three years, and has been involved in at least three to four fights during that time, said a director of a nearby shop, who wanted to be known only as Mr Teo.
He described the suspect to be of medium build and about 1.7m tall.
He added that none of the suspect's previous confrontations in the area had escalated beyond a fist fight.
The stabbing went largely unnoticed and eyewitnesses sensed that something was amiss only when they spotted Mr Firman on the ground in front of a shop adjacent to Southern Motor.
A stain from a pool of blood, which formed near where his body lay, was still visible despite the heavy showers yesterday afternoon, when my paper visited the area.
On Sunday, 56-year-old Madam Mallika Jesudasan was killed in her second-floor Bukit Batok East Avenue 5 flat, sometime between 6.30pm and 10.40pm.
A 31-year-old man, Sujay Solomon Sutherson, said to be her son, was charged with her murder yesterday.
No plea was taken and he is due to return to court on Tuesday.
He faces the death penalty if convicted.
