The mystery passenger involved in the fatal accident on Saturday has been identified as a student from China who had just graduated from a hospitality course at a private university here.
In the latest updates by The Straits Times (ST), the woman is still recovering in a high dependency ward at TTS after being wheeled in to an operation on the afternoon of May 14.
According to friends who visited her at the hospital, she is a student from Wuhan, China, studying in Singapore.
ST reported that her name is Ms Wu Wei Wei, and she is a recent graduate from the East Asia Institute of Management.
The private school has said that it was helping Ms Wu with her insurance claims.
Her friends, who declined to be named, said that they had seen her with Mr Ma before, but did not elaborate on the nature of the relationship.
They added that Ms Wu has a boyfriend.
Her friends also expressed doubt at the rumours flying around about Ms Wu being a nightclub hostess, saying that it was not possible as Ms Wu was a full-time student.
She did not hold any job, they insisted.
They added that Ms Wu is from a reputable and financially stable family.
"Why would she need to work as a hostess when her family can pay for everything?" one female friend said.
Ms Wu is currently in stable condition, but is weak and has difficulty speaking, eating and walking.
She declined to speak to the ST reporter.
Just hours before the accident, Ms Wu was said to have been at a graduation party with her classmates.
However, details of how she ended up in the passenger seat of the red Ferrari involved in the accident is unclear.
All that is known is that she was out driving around Singapore with Mr Ma Chi, 31, in the wee hours of Saturday morning.
In the horrific accident that followed, she was seriously injured in the three-vehicle crash that has claimed the lives of three people so far.
Those killed include Mr Ma, a Chinese national working as a financial advisor here in Singapore, taxi driver Cheng Teck Hock, 52, and the taxi's passenger, a Japanese female passenger in her 40s.
Ms Wu was the sole survivor of the direct crash, but walked away with serious injuries, including head injuries and a fractured right leg.
Motorcyclist Muhamad Azami Awang, 26, who was involved in the accident described the woman to have long hair which was dyed brown like an 'ah lian'.
He added that she was slim and fair skinned, and was wearing hot pants and a white spaghetti-strap tank top.
He told The New Paper that he was surprised to see the woman emerge from the wrecked car.
Friends of Mr Ma told The Sunday Times that they have no idea who the woman is. They also said they did not know why she would be in the car with Mr Ma so early in the morning.
However, reports by Shinmin Daily point to the mystery lady being a hostess at a popular nighclub.
It is believed that Mr Ma patronised the nightclub on the night of his death, and brought the girl for a spin.
According to eye-witnesses, his red Ferrari had been spotted several times at the nightclub premises. But the nightclub valets interviewed by the paper said that they have never seen the Ferrari at the location.
The paper further reported that there is indeed a nightclub hostess at the club that has been warded in hospital.
Witnesses say that the Ferrari crashed into a taxi when it ran a red light, causing the taxi to hit a passing motorcycle.
The impact was so hard that the taxi's engine was found 30m away from the vehicle, reported Shin Min Daily News.
Police and SCDF received calls about the accident at about 4.15am.
Mr Ma was pronounced dead at the scene by the paramedics.
According to reports, Mr Ma first came to Singapore from Sichuan, China, four years ago with his wife and child.
Friends said he was a hard-working and righteous person who worked as a financial investor. He was also applying for permanent residency in Singapore.
They said that Mr Ma, who had just returned Thursday from a business trip, had gone out to a dinner with other friends.
They alleged that no alcohol was drunk that night, although eyewitnesses have claimed Mr Ma smelled of alcohol.
Mr Richard Cheung, 31, told The Straits Times (ST) that Mr Ma did not have a habit of drinking as he was not a heavy drinker and would turn bright red after a glass of alcohol.
When Ms Ting Ting, 28, wife of Mr Ma, found out that her husband had been ferrying a young woman in her 20s at the time of the accident, she expressed surprise and asked the reporters about the identity of the woman.
Ms Ting Ting said her husband had then taken the one-year-old Ferrari out later in the night at about 3am on Saturday for a spin.
She told Lianhe Wanbao that he enjoyed driving at night as there were fewer people around and less traffic.
She also described him as an introverted person who loved his family and his four-year-old daughter. The couple was expecting their second child, and the accident had come soon after their wedding anniversary.
Despite questioning the Chinese daily reporters on the identity of the woman, she maintained that she trusted her husband as he was a loving father and husband.
She also said that it was normal for someone to send a friend home after meeting up with them.
According to Wanbao, she previously worked as a news anchor in Sichuan, before quitting her job to to join her husband in Singapore three years ago.
She is currently a director of the immigrant group Singapore Tian Fu Association.
The Ferrari was a 30th birthday present to himself last year, and is a $1.8 million limited edition model. The couple also own a $3 million condominium in the East Coast and a $400,000 BMW.
According to friends, Mr Ma was a family man, who liked playing computer games and keeping up with the news on Weibo, a Chinese social networking site.
