The wedding is over and the photographs have been taken.
But for two recently married couples here, the wedding albums are still "on hold".
They can't take them home because the photographer claims he has not been paid by the wedding planner that had sub-contracted the job to him.
One of the brides, Ms Syahirah Mohamed Anwar, 25, said she bought a $2,000 photo package from the planner, Love Weddings International, last October.
The business development manager married a businessman in March this year. They had professional studio shots taken a few days after their wedding.
These photos were compiled into an album, which Ms Syahirah is able to see, but is not able to take home.
Frustrated, she made a police report last Thursday.
Ms Syahirah claimed that Love Weddings told her it would pay the photographer, but then delayed doing so.
She told TNP: "This is all very frustrating. Our wedding was supposed to be a happy occasion for us.
"I didn't think we'd end up in a dispute with a company over it. We paid so much money for something and we now have nothing to show for it."
Ms Syahirah and her husband will be moving to Pakistan at the end of the month and are unlikely to return any time soon.
She said: "I really hope to get my photos by then. I also hope other couples will not end up in the situation I'm now in."
The other bride, 27-year-old Norafedah Rafiei, said she paid $550 for her wedding album in March. She said: "I don't blame the photographer for holding the album 'ransom'.
"I just want my album because it contains memories of my wedding."
When approached, the photographer, a 39-year-old who only wanted to be known as Mr Tan, confirmed he had been holding on to the albums since March.
Mr Tan, who operates from a studio in North Bridge Road, said: "They are all I have. If I pass them to the couples or the planner, what's stopping the planner from not paying me?"
He said he had worked with Love Weddings on about 20 projects over the last year, but has since stopped accepting projects from them due to the dispute over payment.
In the past, he would prepare the albums, hand them over the planner and be paid in cash.
But since March, payment for his work has been "very slow", he alleged.
"The directors have been transferring amounts of $100 to $200 to my bank account. But until today, I have not been paid in full," he claimed.
He showed TNP a receipt which allegedly showed that he has received less than half the amount he was due to be paid for Ms Syahirah's album. He was supposed to be paid $2,000 for it.
And he has yet to receive anything for his work on Ms Norafedah's album, he claimed.
Checks by TNP showed that Love Weddings is a live company which was registered in June last year, and it has a website and Facebook page.
When contacted, one of the company's directors, Madam Nadifa Mohamed, 50, said that all the company's matters are handled by a husband-and-wife team, who are its managing directors.
Madam Nadifa, a chef, told TNP she was a friend of the pair and she registered to be Love Weddings' director only in name as a favour to them.
She said: "I was only supposed to be a temporary director. But the two have disappeared and I haven't been able to contact them for many months."
Calls to the managing directors went unanswered and their office premises, located in Grandlink Square in Geylang, appeared to be occupied by another company.
An employee from Grandlink Square's management office told TNP that Love Weddings moved out at the end of last month.
The pair's residential premises were also empty. A neighbour, Mr Chua Weijun, 21, said he had not seen them since February.
Madam Nadifa told TNP: "I'm sorry that the couples had to go through all this. It's unfortunate. But I won't be paying them because I'm not the one who took their money. I hope they will be able to find the pair."
Lawyer Edmond Pereira told TNP that the photographer has no agreement with the couples and has the right to withhold the photos.
He said: "The couples only have an agreement with the planner. (But) taking legal action against the planner would not be cost-effective because the planner is already believed to be in financial trouble."
Mr Pereira suggested that the couples pay the photographer the amount which the planner was supposed to pay, in order to get their albums back.
"Although this would mean the couples have to fork out more money, good sense should prevail, especially since the albums cannot be obtained anywhere else," he said.
