SINGAPORE - When the Indian High Commission in Singapore announced in February that it was appointing two new firms as outsourcing agents for visa, passport and consular services, some were concerned.
There were five firms offering this service at that point - their contracts were ending in March - with one of them even offering 24-hour services.
The question many asked then was whether the new service providers would offer a similar 24-hour service.
The question has now been answered: VFS Global, one of the two new service providers, is keeping its Rangoon Road outlet open 24/7, keeping in mind the convenience of the applicants.
VFS Global has another office in the Central Business District and that one, in Anson Road, will operate from 8.30am to 6.30pm on weekdays.
Speaking at the opening of the two new visa application centres of VFS Global on April 5, the first secretary (consular) at the Indian High Commission V.K. Singh said: "I am happy to inaugurate the India visa and passport application centre in Singapore started by VFS Global, as one of the two service providers to extend passport, consular and visa services in Singapore.
It is hoped the service providers will provide prompt and efficient services to all applicants."
VFS Global's chief operating officer (Australasia) Ajit Alexander added: "It is our privilege to partner and provide services to the High Commission of India in Singapore, and facilitate visa application process for Singaporean nationals and other applicants in the country. VFS Global is honoured to be associated with the government of India in 19 countries."
Some of the key services offered by VFS in addition to Indian visas include Indian passport applications and renewals, birth certificates, attestation and affidavits.
It will also provide a VIP service pick-up and drop facility (on demand) for clients who do not have the time to visit its centres.
A nominal service fee of $3.05 will be charged per application, payable in cash at the time of the application, for the services offered.
Additional charges will apply for SMS status, courier services, etc.
VFS Global operates 526 visa application centres in 63 countries across five continents as of Dec31 last year.
