International Enterprise (IE) Singapore and the National Business Association of Colombia have signed a memorandum of understand (MOU) for closer business collaboration between the two countries.
The MOU was signed at a business luncheon hosted by Mr S. Iswaran, Minister, Prime Minister's Office and Second Minister for Home Affairs and Trade and Industry in honour of His Excellency Juan Manuel Santos Calderon, President of the Republic of Colombia.
The MOU promotes closer collaboration between Singapore and Colombian companies through regular information-sharing on growth opportunities of common interests for Colombia and Singapore, and participating in trade events that promote better understanding of market and sectors' needs in Colombia and Singapore.
The MOU was signed by Assistant Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of IE Singapore, Ms Kathy Lai and President of Asociaci&oacute;n Nacional de Empresarios de Colombi (ANDI), Mr Luis Carlos Villegas.
"Colombia has emerged as a significant market globally. With a stable economic and political environment, its US$323.8 billion (S$403.8 billion) GDP is expected to grow above 4.4 per cent annually in the next 10 years.
"Singapore companies should consider Colombia as part of their emerging market growth strategies. IE Singapore's MOU with ANDI will create new channels for deeper collaboration between Singapore and Colombian industry players," said Ms Lai.
Colombia's economy grew 6 per cent in 2011, ranking fourth in Latin America.
Its GDP per capita doubled over the last decade to US$6,9014 in 2011.
Foreign direct investment increased almost tenfold since 2003 to US$13.2 billion last year.
Due to financial credibility and stability, Colombia's credit rating was upgraded to investment grade by the three main rating agencies in 2011.
The country is ranked sixth best place in the world for investor protection and third best place to do business in Latin America in 2012.
Trade between Singapore and Colombia expanded 128.4 per cent to $755.9 million in 2011.
"For ANDI, this MOU with IE Singapore represents the culmination of efforts from both organisations over the years to build up bilateral economic ties between Singapore and Colombian business communities.
"The MOU institutionalises this dynamic relationship, and will strengthen and increase trade and investment flows between the two countries," said Mr Villegas.
Singapore companies can explore opportunities in sectors such as oil &amp; gas, agri-commodities, e-Government, infrastructure development (ports, airports, urban transport, logistics), aerospace (maintenance, repair &amp; overhaul) and consumer goods.
President Santos is currently in Singapore for a state visit. He brought a delegation of 50 business and government representatives.
IE Singapore has also organised a Singapore-Colombia Business Opportunities Seminar to provide Singapore and Colombian companies a better understanding of respective markets and opportunities to discuss potential collaboration.
Monday's lunch saw senior management members from over 30 Singapore firms representing aviation, commodities, energy, eGovernment, finance, infrastructure, logistics, private equity and ports sectors.
spanaech@sph.com.sg
