SINGAPORE - After more than a decade of anticipation, fans were bitterly disappointed by the amount of problems affecting Diablo 3.
Fans of the popular dark fantasy and horror-themed role-playing game turned out in droves to show their support, with some queuing at Funan DigitalLife Mall as early as a day in advance.
A Stomp contributor wrote: "This is total madness! The queue for Diablo 3 is much worse than that of iPad/iPhone launch!"
"I heard that long lines were already formed outside Funan since yesterday, can't believe that people actually queued for the game for more than 24 hours!"
Yet even after queuing for hours, many of these avid gamers were not even able to get past the loading screen. It seems that Blizzard may have underestimated the sheer number of fans and their servers were unable to cope with the pressure.
Many eager adventurers were greeted with the following message: "The servers are busy at this time. Please try again later. (Error 37)". Apparently, once the servers reached their limit, no one else was able to log on.
Furthermore, since Diablo 3 requires players to be logged in at all times, even whilst playing single-player, the game was effectively unplayable.
Many players took to simply typing their password over and over again, hoping to log in the moment there was room on the server.
However, even those who managed to get past the login screen were faced with a whole suite of problems. The gameplay was plagued with other bugs like Error 300008 or Error 3006, frustrating players to the point of near-insanity.
On the official Diablo 3 website, the most popular forum topics were already those discussing the different errors and how to manage them.
Blizzard, the game's developer, has already swung into action. Servers in North America were taken down for emergency maintenance in order to resolve the issues plaguing the game.
Undergraduate Vincent Wu, 21, was one of those who was unable to log in. He says: "Despite trying repeatedly, I was unable to log in to the Asia server. I finally gave up and logged into the America server.
"I managed to login to the Asia server this morning, but the game still feels very laggy. However, my character was not carried over. Now all the time I invested playing was wasted."
The last game in the series was released in 2001.
