Regardless of who they voted for in last Saturday's by-election, Hougang residents are looking to their new Member of Parliament (MP) to better their lives.
The Workers' Party's (WP's) newly elected MP, Mr Png Eng Huat, 50, has promised to execute plans such as the Neighbourhood Renewal Programme, where covered walkways, linkways, drop-off points, fitness corners for the elderly and more will be built.
Other projects Mr Png has set his eyes on include the Home Improvement Programme and the Hougang Constituency Education Trust for needy students.
Hougang residents shared with my paper their vision and desires for the constituency, which has been in WP hands since 1991.
Retiree and WP supporter Soh Poh Kheen, 53, said that she hoped that her 10-storey Housing Board block would receive lift upgrading. She also suggested building more fitness corners for the elderly.
Taxi driver Sidek Mohd Ali, 53, who is also a WP supporter, said: "I hope to see flat repairs being done and the construction of fitness centres for the elderly so that senior citizens can keep fit."
These views were not limited to WP supporters. Even residents who had voted for the People's Action Party in the by-election want to see what Mr Png has in store for Hougang.
"At the end of the day, we're all Singaporeans and we want the same thing. As for me, I hope that more health-care subsidies will be introduced," said bank executive director Paul Taim, 50.
Yesterday morning, Mr Png, who made his rounds of the ward as MP-elect for Hougang, was greeted by cheers from hundreds of supporters.
Residents who lined the streets had only praise for him and expressed pride in living in an opposition ward.
"Not everyone can say they live in an opposition ward," said Madam Soh.
A retiree, 70, who gave only his surname Liu, had not heard of Mr Png before the by-election.
He said he was convinced of his competence from his campaign efforts. "I think he did well," he said.
A regional sales manager, James, 39, said: "He is honest and straightforward."
Without giving his full name, he added that he hopes for Mr Png to be a democratic voice in Parliament, as well as the voice of residents on national issues, such as wages and competition from foreign workers.
The election results were deemed "expected" by most residents, such as Mr Edmund Loo, 30, an aircraft technician.
But he felt that the important step is for Mr Png to deliver on his promises. Said Mr Loo: "I hope that he keeps to what he has promised and implements his plans quickly."
myp@sph.com.sg
