A SHOCKING revelation: The figure was more than twice the one given on Tuesday for the amount of funds allegedly misused by City Harvest Church leaders.
At yesterday's court hearing, deputy public prosecutor Christopher Ong read out a laundry list of misappropriated funds that added up to a staggering $50.6 million.
This dwarfs the $23 million reported after the five were arrested on Tuesday.
Church founder Kong Hee, 47; his deputy, Tan Ye Peng, 39; church board member John Lam Leng Hung, 44; church investment manager Chew Eng Han, 52; and church financial manager Sharon Tan Shao Yuen, 36, looked on impassively as they stood in a row to hear their charges.
The courtroom was packed with Kong's supporters. An area normally cordoned off was opened up to accommodate them. Even so, not all of the 200 who turned up could get in, as a queue snaked outside the room.
The accused acknowledged their supporters by waving, but the mood got grimmer as the charges were read. All five were downcast as a dramatic silence enveloped those present.
The five faced varying charges, which relate to the alleged misuse of $24 million from the church's building fund between 2007 and 2008, largely to fund the music career of Madam Ho Yeow Sun, Kong's wife.
The money was mostly obtained from donations and allegedly used under the guise of investments. A year later, another $26.6 million was allegedly used to cover up the missing $24 million.
The charges are falsification of accounts and criminal breach of trust by an agent. The latter refers to abuse of power performed by a person holding a substantial amount of responsibility.
It carries heavier penalties than the lesser charge, criminal breach of trust by a servant.
The real drama, however, ensued after the hearing as the accused and their supporters exited the court.
Kong emerged with wife Ho beside him, their hands clasped tightly together.
Flanked in all directions by about 20 of his supporters who formed a human wall, the couple looked sullen and avoided all eye contact with the media and did not utter a word as they were escorted to a waiting car.
Then things got ugly.
In a scuffle, some people in the crowd started shoving photographers away and hurling insults at cameramen.
According to Shin Min Daily News, many of the supporters appeared peeved and some were spotted crying outside the court.
A videographer argued with a supporter who was waving his hand repeatedly in front of the camera to obstruct the filming of Kong walking out of court.
Peace returned only when all five accused left.
Later at 1pm, Kong posted on his Twitter account, alluding to a Biblical verse: "Why r you down in e dumps dear soul? Why r you crying e blues? Fix my eyes on God...He puts a smile on my face. He's my God."
The five were represented by notable lawyers, including Kong's lawyer, Mr Edwin Tong, who is a partner at Allen &amp; Gledhill and an MP for Moulmein- Kallang GRC; and Senior Counsel Lok Vi Ming, a partner at Rodyk and Davidson who is the lawyer for Chew.
The five accused are out on $500,000 police bail and their passports have been impounded.
They are due to return to court in four weeks' time, on July 25.
For conspiracy to commit criminal breach of trust by agent, they may face life imprisonment if convicted.
ethanlou@sph.com.sg
