It is the quality of the voices that counts and not just the quantity.
This was said by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong in an email reply to questions from the media about the Hougang by-election.
He was responding to the Workers' Party's (WP) point that the Hougang seat matters to the opposition party because winning it would increase their presence in parliament by 20 per cent.
The Straits Times reported that while PM Lee fully understands the desire for alternate voices in parliament, it is the quality of these voices that matter.
"Whether one more MP, PAP or opposition, makes a difference depends not on the percentage increase that he represents to his side, but on his integrity, commitment and ability," said PM Lee.
He also urged voters to vote for People's Action Party (PAP) candidate Desmond Choo so as to make a fresh start for Hougang as he will work with the government to improve their lives.
"I hope when Hougang voters go to the polls on Saturday, they will assess both Mr Desmond Choo and Mr Png Eng Huat on that basis, and choose the one they consider more able to represent and look after them," said PM Lee.
Other local reports said Mr Lee said Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean had simply laid out the facts with regards to WP's candidate for Hougang Png Eng Huat initial denial that he had been passed over when WP chose a Non-Constituency Member of Parliament (NCMP) but it later "emerged that this was untrue".
PM Lee said it is an issue for voters to decide.
Earlier on Thursday, Chinese language website o my reported Workers' Party candidate for the by-election, Mr Png Eng Huat, a businessman, had registered and closed eight companies within 12 years. According to the report, someone who claimed to know Mr Png had told my paper recently that there are many similarities between Mr Png and disgraced former Hougang Member of Parliament, Yaw Shin Leong. One being that both had set up many companies and were chairpersons or shareholders of several companies. omy 's check with ACRA revealed that Mr Png, 50, was the director and shareholder of 11 companies since 1990. But between 1990 to 2002, eight of the eleven businesses wound up, leaving only three in operation. When interviewed about his business track record, Mr Png explained that he "strikes when the opportunity arises", and added that his businesses were not shut down abruptly. Mr Png said he has been in "semi-retirement" since 10 years ago when he turned 40, and the remaining companies he owns are being managed by his employees. ACRA's records list Mr Png as the director and shareholder of three businesses - Flor-Art, Globalised Market Traders and Madcow International. According to omy 's report, Flori-Art, located in Chinatown, is a supplier of flower pots and vases. Mr Png says he will occasionally check in with his employees at the office to make sure everything is running smoothly. Employees told an omy reporter who visited the office that Mr Png is a genial and helpful boss. As for Madcow International, Mr Png says the company was initially set up to produce greeting cards for an event, but after the event was over, the business remained inactive. Mr Png also explained that the third company, Globalised Market Traders, is an investment company, but added that he is not actively involved in the operations of the company.
