SINGAPORE - In a brief interview with The New Paper, Mr Stephen Lo, father of Samantha Lo, 25, said that his daughter is "quite traumatised and distressed by what has happened".
Miss Lo has been arrested on the charge of vandalism after allegedly spray painting "My Grandfather Road/Building" on roads and walls around Singapore.
She is also believed to be behind the stickers with quirky slogans such as "Press Until Shiok".
Mr Lo, a commercial pilot, said that he had no idea what she had been up to.
Miss Lo's uncle, Mr Kelvin Tan, 47, said that she was a nice, humble, independent and sincere person who was passionate about the local arts scene.
After taking art as a GCE O-level subject in CHIJ Katong Convent, she went on to do her diploma and degree at a private school.
Upon graduation, she founded the online magazine RCGNTN and was a content curator for the National Art Gallery's Canvas project.
The website for the online magazine was her way of helping out local artists, her uncle said.
"She is very dedicated," he said.
He expressed anger at the way Miss Lo is being treated, saying that she was just trying to make an aesthetic statement.
However, while he expressed support for the stickers, which he said are not acts of vandalism since they were well-conceptualised, he declined to comment on the spray-paint work she did.
He said that he intends to speak with Miss Lo today, whom he says is heated up right now from being "hit left, right, centre with all the attention".
In a Twitter message, Miss Lo broke her silence by saying that she is grateful and "truly touched" by the support she has received.
She also hoped that the media would leave her house alone, the Twitter message said.
Previously she told The Straits Times that neither her nor RCGNTN are responsible for the stickers and road paint.
Fellow contributor of RCGNTN Yasin Rahim, 29, said it is unlikely that she put up all the stickers herself. He said the stickers were freely distributed at RCGNTN events and she had been giving them out for eight to 10 months.
