At first glance, he appears to be a clean-cut man with a head for business.
Tang Boon Thiew, 38, who was educated in Britain and owns an online marketing firm, has several start-up firms under his belt.
And based on his picture that has appeared in newspapers, the bespectacled Tang could pass off as your typical next-door neighbour.
But behind this veneer of respectability, he allegedly hides a dirty secret.
He is said to be behind the online prostitution ring that an underage girl worked for.
To date, 48 men have been hauled to court for allegedly engaging her sexual services. It is an offence in Singapore to pay for sex with anyone under 18.
Tang's name was mentioned in the charge sheets of the 44 men who were charged on Monday.
The documents stated that the girl was allegedly under Tang's charge.
It has now emerged that Tang was charged in court last November with 35 counts of prostitution-related offences, believed to have been committed between October 2009 and last November.
Based on the charge sheets, at least 15 prostitutes between 18 and 47 years old had allegedly worked for him.
And at a time when most sex workers in Singapore are foreigners from countries like Thailand, Vietnam and China, the women linked to Tang stand out in one respect - they are all Singaporeans.
These women are believed to be models, students and working professionals.
It is understood that they were recruited through a Facebook page that Tang purportedly set up as a front for his alleged vice trade.
He is also accused of 16 charges of knowingly living in part on the earnings of prostitution and one count of managing a place where sex workers were assigned.
On top of these, Tang also faces 17 charges of procuring women for the purpose of prostitution at top luxury hotels in the downtown area.
He is also accused of engaging the sexual services of an underage prostitute for $50 in September 2010.
A police spokesman declined to reveal if she was the girl in the paid sex cases involving the 48 men charged earlier this week.
It is believed that the men paid between $450 and $850 for her services.
Based on court papers, the girl would have collected more than $31,000 from these men.
However, it's unclear how much of the money went to her as Tang's alleged cut from those earnings is not known.
The 48 accused include Howard Shaw Chai Li, 41, the grandson of the founder of cinema giant Shaw Organisation; former Pei Chun Public School principal Lee Lip Hong, 39; and an ex-teacher at River Valley High School, Chua Ren Cheng, 31.
Only Lee and Chua have told the court that they intend to plead guilty to their charges.
The pair will be back in court next week.
The other accused included former military personnel, finance professionals and businessmen.
Two of the accused have been allowed to travel overseas.
Businessman Edward Whistler Goh Ngian Meng, 49, applied yesterday through his lawyer, Mr Wee Pan Lee, to make two trips before his next court date in May.
The court heard that he intends to travel to China for business for four days from tomorrow and to East Malaysia from May 4 to 6.
Reyner Desvando Suhartono, 28, was given the nod on Thursday to travel home to Indonesia.
He had submitted his application on the grounds that he had to prepare for his June 2 wedding.
Tang's pre-trial conference will be held on May 8.
The New Paper understands that as an entrepreneur, he had set up six companies from 2004.
Among them is Bain &amp; Mercer, an online marketing agency.
TNP also understands that before starting his firms, Tang had worked in multinational companies including Shell International Petroleum, Motorola and Virgin Mobile.
If convicted of knowingly living in part on earnings of prostitution, he can be jailed up to five years and fined up to $10,000 on each charge.
Anyone found guilty of engaging the sexual services of an underage prostitute can be jailed up to seven years and fined.
Speculation is now rife about the identity of the underage prostitute allegedly engaged by the 48men charged in court earlier this week.
Images of a slim, fair-complexioned woman can now be found online, posted by netizens who claim that she is the girl involved in the case.
If she turns out to be the girl in question, these netizens could be committing an offence.
This is because the court has imposed a gag order on the identity of the girl.
The police said that they are aware of such postings.
The public is reminded that a court order has been made prohibiting the publication of any photograph or information which might lead to the identification of the underaged female witness in the case.
Any person who breaches this order through publication on any platform will be committing an offence.
Those convicted disobeying a gag order can be jailed up a year and fined a maximum of $5,000.
Nine men were hauled to court for their alleged involvement with underage Vietnamese prostitutes.
Six are accused of engaging in commercial sex with three Vietnamese girls below 18 years old.
The other three are accused of working with the pimp and his wife.
The nine men's cases are pending. The pimp, Seng Swee Meng, 42, was jailed for five years on April 11.
The New Paper on Sunday exposed an online vice syndicate operating out of a condominium in the Central Business District.
The webpage run by the vice operator had young Thai women posing provocatively in skimpy clothes.
On Jan 19, during a TNPS stakeout, three men were spotted entering and leaving the condominium unit between noon and 4pm.
Police arrested 23 people for alleged involvement in vice-related activities.
Among them was a 32-year-old Singaporean man, believed to be the ringleader.
A unit in a Bukit Panjang condominium had allegedly been used as a call centre for his online sex-for-hire syndicate.
The syndicate's three websites showed scantily dressed women from Thailand and Korea.
