SINGAPORE - More cases of scamming have been reported recently, according to the police in its latest advisory.
In the latest trend, more people have been tricked into parting with cash in &ldquo;scratch and win&rdquo; scams in Johor Bahru.
The number of such cases rose from 8 cases in 2010 to 46 reported cases in just four months, from Jan to May 2012.
In these cases, victims were informed that they had won a prize in a foreign lottery or lucky draw. The suspects would then request for victims to make as advanced payment to help in the process of claiming the prize.
Victims were offered a ride to the nearest ATM to withdraw large sums of money to make an initial payment before receiving their &lsquo;winnings'.
After handing their cash to the suspects, victims realized that the prizes did not exist or were of a much lower value than promised.
If in Singapore, victims may call the police immediately at &lsquo;999' to report the case. Victims may also call the Singapore police hotline if they have information on such cases at 1800-255-0000.
Police would like to remind members of public to be wary of get-rich-quick offers and not to make any advance payment to claim any prize money. They are also advised not to accept car rides from strangers, even if they offer you a lift back to Singapore.
There has also been more reported cases of a variation of the Internet "love scam", where victims will be persuaded to pose naked on their webcams and the footage subsequently used to extort money from victims.
Police would like to remind members of public to remain vigilant against such scammers, and to adopt the following crime prevention measures especially when dealing with unknown persons over the Internet:
a. Inform the Police immediately if anyone attempts to extort money from you;
b. Be wary of messages from unknown people who want to befriend you;
c. Exercise caution when dealing with unknown persons &ldquo;befriended&rdquo; through the Internet.
d. Do not remit or transfer money to people whom you do not know well enough. The criminal may spend months building rapport with you online before asking for money;
e. Do not accede to any request that may put you in a vulnerable positions, such as performing compromising acts in front of the webcam, or give personal details about yourself when interacting with other internet users; and
f. If you receive any message or call from anyone claiming he/she is in some kind of trouble overseas and need you to urgently send money over, you should report the matter to Police and not transfer the money.
Scams of various natures will be highlighted in the next episode of Crimewatch on 24 June 2012 at 9pm to increase the awareness and vigilance of the public.
