He was watching television in his Koon Seng Road residential shophouse with his family on Thursday night when he heard a boom.
His five-year-old grandson thought it was thunder, but Mr Kwek Buck Chua had an inkling that it was more than that.
The 77-year-old retiree quickly grabbed his camera and went out to the little lane behind his house to check.
He was shocked to see a black car lying upside down just a few metres away from him.
The car had rammed into a lamp post and mounted the kerb before it overturned, landing on the doorstep of the unit across the lane.
The streetlights also went out, plunging the entire lane into darkness.
The accident happened on a narrow lane at Tembeling Road in the Joo Chiat area at about 9.30pm.
The driver was said to be a 55-year-old man.
Residents The New Paper spoke to said the driver was trapped in the car, but remained conscious.
He did not appear to be hurt though he seemed to be in a daze.
Mr Kwek said a few of his neighbours tried to help the driver out of the car, but could not open any of the doors.
Said Ms Agnes Cassonnet, 45, a nurse who lives one unit away: "My neighbours also tried to break the glass to get him out, but they realised it might be dangerous so they decided to wait for the police to arrive."
Fearing that there could be an explosion and fire if the driver left the car engine running, Ms Cassonnet and her neighbours knocked repeatedly on the car windows to alert him.
"He couldn't really understand what we were saying. About 10 minutes later, he stopped the engine," she said.
Ms Cassonnet added that she and a few others tried to calm the driver down when it looked like he was starting to panic.
She said: "He was trapped for about 15 to 20 minutes before help arrived."
The Singapore Civil Defence Force was alerted to the accident at 10.03pm and dispatched a fire engine, an ambulance, two fire bikes and a Red Rhino.
They arrived within seven minutes.
The driver was extricated in five minutes and examined for injuries before being taken away by the police.
Police investigations are ongoing.
Mr Kwek was in disbelief that such an accident could have happened in his backyard.
"It's such a small lane and few cars drive through here," he said.
When TNP visited the accident site on Friday afternoon, workers were repairing the damaged lamp post.
Glass shards could be seen in the drain along the lane and there was a large gash on a pillar nearby.
