Our attitudes towards festival dining speak volumes about who we are.
It was not so long ago when Chinese New Year meant looking forward to a noisy dinner and evening with the whole family on the eve.
There would be steamboat - with copious amounts of fresh, juicy and "relevant" ingredients all laid out, glistening with the moisture emanating from the steam of the pot.
Or it would be the home-cooked banquet, with all the appropriate dishes, like chicken, steamed or fried prawns, mushrooms and sea cucumber (very meaningful - it represents joy and happiness to complete a year), dried oysters and black hair moss fungus (meaningful success) and platters of long yoke or bak kwa (robust health and wealth).
While most of that hasn't changed today, a section of our population is succumbing to the seduction of affluence, and snob appeal, at such meals.
Some now see it as a lifestyle statement and get hung up about the $1,888 options - that attempt to measure you with what you can afford.
It's not about family harmony but about how many top-grade abalones your family needs.
Then, there's the "berbuka puasa" meal - that once humble breaking of fast by Muslims during the month of Ramadan.
It was once a simple act of having milk, honey and dates followed by a sincere homemade meal with friends and family.
These days, the mere thought of tearing into a decadent halal buffet resplendent with flavours from all the world makes the fasting a bit more bearable and, in turn, makes the meaning a lot more improbable.
Another painful episode in festival dining? The meaning of mooncakes.
Whatever you perceive the Mid-Autumn festival story to be (lady flying to the moon, or rebels spreading messages via tasty treats), please let it not revolve around far-fetched ideas of what mooncakes should be made of, like perhaps, with a tempura marzipan skin, Godiva chocolate, beluga caviar, kurobuta pork flanks with champagne this and that stuffing. Sheesh.
This is festival feasting at its lowest - because it is all about your means to feast, not the meaning of the feast.
Think Christmas and New Year and it's about countdown parties these days, not about counting your blessings.
