He is Australia's 26th richest man.
With a fortune estimated at about A$915 million (S$1.1 billion), 36-year-old Nathan Tinkler is known for his flamboyant use of wealth.
He buys sporting teams, thoroughbreds, property and expensive toys as part of his lifestyle. Despite a high-profile lifestyle, he has decided to leave Newcastle in the Australian state of New South Wales.
His destination? Singapore. He and his family are moving here, Sydney Morning Herald reported. Mr Tinkler, who began life as an electrician, will be swapping the world of lattes for the famous "teh" of Singapore.
The reason behind his move? To have more access to Asian markets, the report said.
He has been in the media spotlight in Australia because of his love for fast cars and as owner of rugby team Newcastle Knights and an Australian football team, Newcastle Jets, which plays in the national league.
But he will not have such problems and unwanted local attention in Singapore.
Last year, his A$500,000 Ferrari California was stolen from his garage and set on fire.
His spokesman, Mr Tim Allerton, said on Friday: "His principal place of residence would now be described as Singapore. He just wants to be closer to the markets, to Asia."
Mr Allerton said Mr Tinkler's wife, Rebecca, and their four school-going children were also preparing to leave Newcastle.
Last month, Mr Tinkler sold one of his houses for A$2.8million. He had bought the property in 2008 for A$4.3 million.
His planned A$13 million development of two other blocks in Merewether, a suburb of Newcastle, has been in limbo since a development application was approved in June last year.
Mr Tinkler, 36, built his fortune with three big coal deals, resulting in the latest estimate of his wealth of A$915 million.
His high-stakes approach involved selling his house and his business in November 2006 to finance a deal that turned A$1 million into A$441 million.
His new home will be a long way from his A$200 million stud farm, Patinack Farm, and other business interests. Mr Allerton said Mr Tinkler would travel frequently to Australia and his business interests would remain unaffected by the move.
The spokesman said: "Nathan remains 100 per cent committed to the Knights, and also his Australian operations, and continues to manage them as he has."
Mr Tinkler will also have the advantage of paying less personal tax in Singapore, where the rate is one of the lowest in the world. It is capped at 20 per cent, compared to the top tax rate of 46.5 per cent in Australia.
Facebook co-founder Mr Eduardo Saverin has also been calling Singapore home since 2009.
The 30-year-old was in the news recently for giving up his US passport. He had renounced it last year, but the news became public only weeks before the Facebook IPO last month.
Tax purposes are probably the biggest reason for his citizenship renouncement, Forbes reported.
If Mr Saverin had kept his US passport, he would be paying up to 40 per cent in income tax next year. In Singapore, he would have to pay just 20 per cent on his earnings. He will also not be paying capital gains tax on his investment.
Couple this with the celebrity status he enjoys in Singapore - Mr Saverin is frequently spotted out and about on Singapore's social scene, and also drives a Bentley.
He is a permanent resident here and has no plans to take up Singapore citizenship, his New York-based press agent Tom Goodman told AFP last month.
The media-shy Mr Saverin was born to a wealthy family in Brazil, moved to the US in 1992 and became an American citizen in 1998.
A website "Who owns Facebook?" has estimated his worth at around US$3.4 billion (S$4.4 billion).
He has already invested in a number of firms, including Anideo, a Singapore-based tech firm that specialises in developing mobile applications for Apple's iOS and Google's Android operating platforms, the spokesman added.
