You might pass him if you are out in the Grange Road area very early in the morning. Mr Shael Oswal likes to cycle to keep fit. He does 7km every day when he is in Singapore.
Mr Oswal, 33, is in the mining business and quite often he is travelling. But if you think he is going to shift his cycling route to Sentosa - after all, he recently bought a Sentosa Cove bungalow from Dr Susan Lim and her husband Deepak Sharma for $39 million - you are wrong.
The father of two young children, who is also a singer of repute, plans to use the bungalow only as a weekend retreat. He reasons that since his daughter Sohanaa, nine, and son Shivam, seven, are students of Tanglin Trust School, it would be very difficult for them to make the journey from Sentosa every morning. He would rather take them to Sentosa on weekends.
Many well-heeled families in Delhi have farmhouses on the city's outskirts where they spend their weekends. Mr Oswal's parents have one too and he plans to use the Sentosa Cove bungalow in the same fashion.
"It is an investment for weekends. I can take the children to Sentosa and when we get tired we can stay there," he says. When I ask him if he plans to buy a yacht, he laughs and adds: "Already this is a huge investment so we will have to wait for that for some more time."
Mr Oswal moved to Singapore in the second half of 2009 and has been living in the Grange Road area.
Once he decided that he needed a weekend getaway, his mother and wife took up the search. "They saw a few in Sentosa but this one is in a very beautiful location. The sea view is great," he says adding that some renovation work remains to be done.
Mr Oswal has entrusted the renovation work to an Italian firm and hopes it will be completed in about three months. He adds that his mother is taking a keen interest in the renovation of the 15,929 sq ft bungalow, a 99-year leasehold property, which is said to have five bedrooms and an entertainment room.
He says his father is keen on spending more time in Singapore in the future and will divide his time between this country and India.
The older Oswal ran the Oswal group of companies which was big in petrochemicals and fertilisers.
During the last decade, the group hived off its manufacturing assets and, according to Mr Oswal, has "sufficient resources which it intends to invest in and around the region".
The mining business that he is running out of Singapore is doing well. Alata Overseas, which had a turnover of $50 million last year, hopes to achieve $70 million this year.
The busy work schedule does not leave much time for Mr Oswal's other love - singing.
"While I was in India, I was very much into music. I did my schooling in Mayo College in Ajmer and used to take part in dancing and singing competitions for fun. When I finished schooling I realised that I should do something since God has given me a talent in music," he says of his love for music.
"Fortunately, my mother who has taken classical music lessons and who is interested in music, pushed me into it. So I started training under a guruji in Delhi in Hindustani classical music and then I got to know Biddu, the famous Bollywood music director, and my first album came out with his help," he adds.
In the music world, he is known by his first name Shael - a name that came about as a result of his seniors in school ragging him. He was named Shailendra when he was born and says that the shortened named served him well when he entered the music scene.
He has sung over 50 songs and released seven albums with Hiriye, a Punjabi song released in 2006, becoming a hit. "My songs are mostly ballads, in a mixture of Hindi and Punjabi. I have a following mostly in north India and some in Maharashtra," he says of his music.
He, however, is not ready to give up his singing career yet, saying he has a new album ready. Most of the songs in the album were done before he moved to Singapore and he is waiting for the right time to release it.
"It is titled Sarfaraaz. It means somebody who is crazy. It is also the name of one of the songs in the album," he explains and says that friends advise him not to give up singing.
The self-confessed family man says that these days he sings with his children at home and enjoys every moment with them. The young ones decide where dad has to take them during weekends and often they end up at the Bird Park, which is also one of Mr Oswal's favourite spots.
"I love feeding the lories there. It's very refreshing and entertaining at the same time."
patrickj@sph.com.sg
