SINGAPORE - Former director of the Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB), Ng Boon Gay, was charged in court today on four counts of corruption, in a high-profile sex-for-contracts case here.
Ng, 46, had allegedly obtained sexual gratification on four occasions from Cecilia Sue Siew Nang, who was an employee of two IT vendors, Hitachi and Oracle.
Ng pleaded not guilty to all four charges.
The trysts, which occurred between June 2011 and December 2011, were allegedly to further the business interests of the relevant IT vendor, with respect to the vendor's dealings with CNB.
According to the AFP, the charges state Ng had oral sex with Sue four times, twice when she was a sales manager with Hitachi Data Systems Pte Ltd and twice when she worked for Oracle Corporation Singapore Pte Ltd.
The Straits Times reported that Ng arrived at the Subordinate Courts at 8.50am, accompanied by his wife and lawyers.
His bail has been set for $10,000 and his next court date is on June 26.
Ng was arrested on Dec 19 last year under the Prevention of Corruption Act, two weeks before former Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) commissioner Peter Lim Sin Pang was nabbed.
Lim, 52, was charged in court last Wednesday with 10 counts of corruption. He was found to have engaged in sexual trysts with three women in return for favouring their companies during IT-related tenders held by the SCDF.
The word "obtained" used in court documents in both cases indicate that the men were the likely parties that initiated the sexual propositions.
Criminal lawyer Mr Foo Cheow Ming, who was interviewed by The Straits Times, pointed out that the word "accept" would have been used if the women were the ones who offered sex.
Lim was reported to have had sex in a parked car at a carpark for four out of the ten occasions. Two other encounters are alleged to have taken place in his Tanjong Rhu apartment.
A former government scholarship recipient and married, Lim is currently out on bail of $10,000. He faces a jail term of up to five years and a fine of $100,000 for each charge.
candicec@sph.com.sg
