They are a fascinating repository of music history, their shelves having stocked everything from vinyl records to cassette tapes and compact discs (CDs).
They might not have the frontages of chains like HMV, but "mom-and-pop" CD stores are holding their own - for now.
Roxy Records &amp; Trading at Excelsior Shopping Centre will celebrate its 50th year in December, while Natural Sound Records Company at People's Park Centre, and Unisong at Fook Hai Building, have been around for over 30 years.
Whereas large chains have bigger overheads and are highly dependent on high mass-sale volumes, smaller stores can survive as they rely on niche markets and have a loyal clientele.
Even so, many shop owners that my paper spoke to are calling it a "sunset" business.
Bastions of traditional music media, these stores have weathered piracy and dipping CD sales, while big chains suffered the most.
Tower Records exited in 2006, Sembawang Music Centre folded in 2009 and HMV has downsized to smaller outlets.
Two weeks ago, Ipsos - a Paris-based global market-research group - revealed the results of an April survey which indicated that more Singaporeans are getting their music fix for free.
Alarmingly, out of 509 respondents, only 16 per cent had purchased a music CD from a physical store in a month.
About three in 10 respondents downloaded their tunes illegally.
Mr Paul Lim, co-owner of Roxy Records, who is in his 50s, said that "piracy is not new".
He cited the fact that bootleg cassettes were rampant in the 1970s and 1980s, and that had cut into their sales.
But none hit the industry as hard as the Internet, he added.
Mr Thamodaran, 56, who runs Jothi Music Corner, said that out of 10 customers who walk in today, only two or three will make a purchase.
It is a contrast to the heyday in the 1990s, when sales were brisk and nearly all customers who walked in bought something, he said.
CD sales of Bollywood and Kollywood soundtracks, as well as Bhangra tunes, have suffered because the music can be downloaded online, the owner of the shop at Little India Arcade said.
Conversely, selling music which is not easily available on the Internet has also helped them stay afloat.
For Mr Thamodaran, CDs of prayers, classical and meditative music, now make up 90 per cent of his music sales.
The customers, he said, come to him precisely because they cannot locate the music online.
Mr Larry Lam, 60, co-owner of Natural Sound, said: "I don't sell any pop-music CDs. I don't even have Lady Gaga's CDs."
Rather, the customers who frequent his Chinatown shop are mostly older folk who go for Teochew and Cantonese opera, and English oldies.
Even if the music is available online, his customers do not know how to download them, Mr Lam said.
But it is not just online piracy which is bleeding these shops. Rent is another factor, said most of the shop owners.
Mr Lim said that high rental prices pushed Roxy Records out of the shopping centre that is now called Funan DigitaLife Mall, where they were located for close to 20 years.
Roxy Records moved to the neighbouring Excelsior in 2003.
As for Natural Sound, the rent is so high that it barely makes profit every month, and is always breaking even.
Other shop owners said that business is still quite brisk, driven by a regular and dedicated customer base.
Mr Ho Chan Sian, of Memphis Music, said that half of his sales are from custom orders, while the other half are bought off the shelves.
Eighty per cent of customers who frequent his shop at Excelsior are repeat customers, while 20 per cent are walk-ins, said Mr Ho, 56.
He said that his business is kept "relevant" by selling music scorebooks and instructional DVDs.
These appeals to shoppers who frequent the area, many of whom are musicians, he said.
Over at The Attic, at Square 2 @ Novena, co-owner and former Radio Singapore International DJ and executive producer Belinda Sunshine Yeo cited a different sort of clientele as the reason why the family-run business is doing fine.
"Teenagers download because they cannot afford to buy the CDs that they want. Our clients are mostly executives who can," explained Ms Yeo, who is in her 50s.
Like Roxy Records and Memphis Music, The Attic still sells records, which she says is a big hit with collectors.
Music played from records offer a warmer sound that does not cause the listener fatigue, said the shop owners.
Mr Lim, of Roxy, said: "If you listen to Teresa Teng using vinyl, you get the feeling that she's standing in front of you and singing."
Mr Ho, of Memphis, said: "LP (record) sales are very resilient, because you can't download the vinyl experience."
Like vinyl enthusiasts, CD lovers echoed similar sentiments.
For independent stage producer Neo Kim Seng, 48, he relishes the experience of "opening a CD case, smelling the ink from the paper and putting the disc into the player".
Student Jasmin Ang, 19, buys CDs because of the memorabilia that comes with the disc.
She said: "Sometimes, the CDs come with posters, which can be framed and mounted on the wall."
Even though some are still willing to spend money on CDs and records, it is not a matter of whether or not the industry can survive, but for how long.
Some people are giving it a good three to five years, while others are just hoping that the downward slide will slow down.
Mr Lim said that for the moment, he has his sights on Dec 31 - the 50th anniversary of Roxy Records, which began life in a two-storey shophouse along Hill Street in 1962.
"It's a shame if the shop closes down," he said wistfully.
He runs Roxy with his brothers, Mr Richard Lim and Mr Siah Lim, a business handed down from his father and other partners.
"But all things that begin must have an end. It's like that Lana Del Rey song - Born To Die," he said.
Spoken like a true aficionado who lives and breathes the business.
#B1-35, Excelsior Shopping Centre, 5 Coleman St
Tel: 6334 0339
Opens from: 12.30pm-7.30pm, Mon-Sat
USP: Rock, jazz and blues CDs and DVDs, as well as stuff on guitar artists - from Tommy Emmanuel to Scott Henderson. Also carries music scores and instructional books.
What keeps them going: "We must make ourselves relevant, have the products customers want, and be reasonable in pricing," said owner Ho Chan Sian.
#01-64 Square 2 @ Novena, 10 Sinaran Drive
(till June 12 - they are under negotiations to move to another location in town)
Tel: 6235 0165
Opens from: 12pm-7 pm, Mon-Sat
USP: English CDs, records and posters.
What keeps them going: "We help our customers order what they cannot find," said co-owner Belinda Sunshine Yeo.
#01-77, Little India Arcade, 48 Serangoon Rd
Tel: 6299 5528
Opens from: 10.30am-10.30pm, daily
USP: Vast selection of CDs
of Bollywood and Kollywood soundtracks, Bhangra, religious, classical and traditional songs.
What keeps them going: "Prayers and classical music are two items you can't get on the Internet, so customers have to come here to listen and buy," said owner Thamodaran.
#B1-68, People's Park Centre, 101 Upper Cross St
Tel: 6533 0931
Opens from: noon-8pm, daily, except public holidays
USP: English oldies and Teochew/Cantonese opera.
What keeps them going: "We do not cater to youngsters, but to the older people who listen to opera," said owner Larry Lam.
#02-15, Excelsior Shopping Centre, 5 Coleman St
Tel: 6337 7783
Opens from: 11am-9.30pm, Mon-Sat
USP: CDs and records of anything from metal to jazz. Check out their section on Teochew opera.
What keeps them going: "We also sell local music and help promote gigs," said co-owner Paul Lim.
24 Bali Lane
Tel: 9681 6341
Opens from: 2.30pm-10pm, daily
USP: CDs and records of local and regional artistes; as well as indie rock, hardcore punk and reggae-ska releases from overseas.
Also sells streetwear T-shirts and music biographies.
What keeps them going: "We are a record label as well, and we hold our own events, so we are not focused on only retail sales," said owner Ridhwan Abdul Ghany.
#01-11, Fook Hai Building, 150 South Bridge Rd
Tel: 6273 5444
Opens from: 10.30am-7pm, daily
USP: CDs/VCDs on various types of Chinese opera.
What keeps them going: "When we move, our customers will call to ask where we are," said Ms Kuek Mei Zhen, daughter of owner Billy Kuek.
#B1-56K/L, United Square, 101 Thomson Rd
Tel: 6259 3320
Opens from: 11am-9pm, daily
USP: Specialises in CDs of new-age and instrumental music, such as the likes of Kevin Kern, Secret Garden, S.E.N.S. and Joe Hisaishi. Also sells CDs in high-quality formats, like Super Audio and High Definition.
What keeps them going: "Our products cater to audiophiles who value the sound and can afford it," said owner Alan Tan.
