Better option Propmart (BOP) Group, a Greater Noida-based consulting firm, is starting its Singapore operations next month.
And the company is organising a customer event called Virasat to mark the occasion.
Virasat, a business conference and musical gala, will showcase a comprehensive range of property options that BOP Group has designed for international customers.
Interested investors will get a chance to interact with some of India's leading real estate advisers during the event and the company promises to present the best and most trusted property products and services, all under one roof.
The event will also feature a performance by singer Mika, who will entertain the crowd with some of his most famous songs, as well as talks featuring industry experts.
Virasat has been organised by BOP Group at various cities in India in the past few months and has always drawn investors by the unique platform it presents.
The conference, co-presented by Jaypee Group, is designed for international real estate buyers and traders looking for market perspective, educational sessions and networking opportunities.
It will help them understand the transactions and processes involved in buying homes and office spaces in India, and aid in business growth and expansion.
New customers will also gain from the opportunities offered and learn about the Indian market and its dynamics first-hand from various real estate professionals.
BOP Group founder and managing director Amit Mavi will be present at the launch conference on May 4 in Singapore.
He aims to give the audience an insight into the group, its plans and what it aims to achieve by setting up an office in Singapore.
Speaking on how BOP Group's presence will help those interested in buying property in India, Mr Mavi said: "The large NRI (Non-resident Indian) population in Singapore is creating a real demand for quality commercial and residential investments back in India. I am sure of a successful presence for us in Singapore in the years to come."
BOP Group's vice-president Sumit Ghosh added: "Singapore has a large population of NRIs. At least 40 per cent don't have any real estate investments in India.
This is primarily due to the lack of a proficient single window advisory company.
Since the real estate community in India is primarily unorganised, BOP, as India's largest real estate consultancy, aims to fill this vacuum by providing not only the best product range but also world class single window advisory services."
BOP will introduce projects of Jaypee Greens, a renowned Indian land developer it has worked with for four years, to customers in Singapore.
Jaypee Greens is the creator of Jaypee wish-town, containing India's first Formula 1 race track in Noida.
BOP Group is present across 10 major cities in India including Delhi and Mumbai and recently expanded its operations to Dubai.
It boasts a network of over 700 channel partners and a customer base of more than 36,000.
It has a turnover of Rs220 crores, making it one of the fastest growing strategic advisory firms in India.
