They were two of the biggest casualties of the Orchard Road floods in 2010.
But when it comes to flood protection, Liat Towers and Lucky Plaza handle it quite differently.
One is now a flood fortress.
In the last two years, Liat Towers beefed up its defences with protective "weapons" like a pop-up gate, portable slide-in barriers and a perimeter wall.
Last week, its building management also upsized four pumps to discharge water more quickly from the open plaza area.
The other casualty, Lucky Plaza, relied on old-fashioned sandbags.
But that's about to change.
A spokesman for its management committee said a pop-up flood gate is in the works.
The likely tab? $1 million.
The spokesman told The New Paper through e-mail yesterday: "Preparation work started on June 11 and the construction work is expected to be completed before the year-end. The construction cost is expected to be over a million dollars."
Sources said the barrier is likely to stretch along the entire building facade along Orchard Road and partly along Mount Elizabeth Road.
The news surprised Lucky Plaza's basement tenants.
A souvenir shop manager, who wanted to be known only as Mr Khan, said: "We've not heard about this. At least it's an improvement (from the current situation).
"It shows they are doing something to prevent another flooding incident."
Two years ago on this date, many basement shops in Lucky Plaza were forced to stop business when the floods hit.
Mr Khan's bosses suffered almost $3,000 in losses.
As a precautionary measure, they replaced the carpeting with new floor tiles last month.
Shoe shop owner Lee S.K. went one step further.
He put up his own flood barrier in July 2010.
The customised inch-high metal bar across his basement shop entrance cost $200 to install.
By day, the barrier is covered with a carpet.
It emerges at night after the shop is locked up.
Rubber door stoppers are used to plug the remaining gaps.
Mr Lee, 65, told TNP in Mandarin: "I thought of this idea myself. It cannot guard against major floods but it should be okay against minor ones."
Over at Liat Towers, building supervisor Chik Hai Lam oversaw the latest project: upsizing four pumps outside luxe label Hermes' shop and the Starbucks cafe.
The new version, which cost $70,000, is three times more powerful than its predecessor.
They can discharge more than 200 litres of water a minute, "enough to meet the revised drainage guidelines" that national water agency PUB recommended post-flood.
But Mr Chik is realistic.
"It doesn't mean we'll be 100 per cent flood-free. Nothing is foolproof. Let's see how things hold up when the next heavy storm hits," he said.
"We've put in the latest measure so our tenants can do business and we can sleep peacefully at night."
The measures were part of the reason that affected tenants are staying the course.
Ms Faith Wang, assistant director of Wendy's Singapore, said: "We do not have any plan to move from Liat Towers now."
Although the floods affected how people viewed the restaurant, especially on rainy days, she acknowledged the building management's efforts to install portable slide-in flood gates at the side and kitchen doors.
A Hermes spokesman said: "We are happy with the landlord's actions (like) flood gate installation and drain repairs to prevent the backflow of drainage water."
PUB is expected to announce plans to build either a diversion canal or detention pond to improve the area's drainage in the coming months.
