Singapore's first kids club, the Port of Lost Wonder (POLW), officially opens today at Sentosa's Palawan Beach.
Spanning 6,177 square metres, the new attraction features a pirate ship water-play area, picnic decks, outdoor play areas for toddlers, F&amp;B and retail outlets as well as indoor and outdoor activities.
The pirate ship water-play area can accommodate up to 100 kids and adults are allowed within the area if they are accompanying their children.
POLW Wonder Crew will also be stationed to ensure safety at all times.
An outdoor play area called Curiosity Island lets children participate in various activities and an air-conditioned Play Den provides a comfortable hideout.
A toddlers' play area called Hatch Patch allows little ones to crawl and roll around, while families can hold picnics on The Deck.
Events spaces for birthday parties or events can also be held at the Celebration Island area, a purpose-built space for parties to be held within POLW.
The new attraction also becomes a spot for dining and relaxation in the evenings when the water play area closes at 6pm.
The landscaped walkway called Palawan Link and the POLW cost $13 million to build. In addition, an indoor family entertainment centre will be built under the overall rejuvenation plan for Palawan Beach.
The entire attraction can fit up to 750 people.
Minister in the Prime Minister's office and Second Minister for Trade and Industry and Home Affairs S Iswaran officiated the opening today.
The opening of POLW marks the beginning of Sentosa's 40th anniversary celebrations.
CEO of Sentosa Development Corporation Mike Barclay said: "Today, many of the attractions along our beaches are tailored for older children, teenagers and adults. The opening of POLW marks the first step in our plan to reinforce Palawan Beach's status as a must-visit destination for parents with young children.
"By opening a supervised water-play zone by the beach but away from the open sea, we are encouraging children to have wonderful adventures in a safe, gated environment."
POLW is open from 10am to 6.30pm. Water play area closes at 6pm.
Ticket prices for children cost $8 on weekdays and $15 on weekends.
