If one had to give Mr Aaron Maniam a label, it would have to be "Made In Singapore".
Officially he may be known as an Indian-Muslim but in reality, there is not enough space to fit his ethnicity on his pink identity card.
While chatting with tabla! about his Singapore Youth Award (SYA) - he was one of three who received the highest accolade in this country for youth on June 24 - he revealed that he had an interesting background: His father Sydney is of Tamil-Eurasian descent while his mother Bibi is of Malay-Pakistani-Chinese descent. That probably explains his full name: Aaron Shahril Yusoff Maniam.
In a way, his mixed heritage helps him navigate better when mentoring young people across the ethnic lines in Singapore.
The 32-year-old bachelor is actively involved with the National Youth Council where he is a council member and the chairman of the National Youth Academy which trains youth and student leaders.
He is also the chairman of the Singapore Indian Development Association's (SINDA) youth club and currently works with the Malay-Muslim self-help group Mendaki on its Leadership Incubator programme.
He was nominated by SINDA for the SYA and confessed that it was a "nice surprise" when he received word that he was one of the three awardees. The other winners are paralympian Jovin Tan and researcher Yeo Sze Ling, who is blind.
"I think of it as a recognition of being in multiple teams. There is no way you can do what you do without strong teams backing you," said Mr Maniam who is also a published poet.
Currently the director of the Institute of Policy Development at the Civil Service College, where his department develops and co-ordinates programmes to train civil servants, Mr Maniam has been working with young people since his undergraduate years in Oxford University.
He was a volunteer with Jacari, a student charity that provides home tutoring for ethnic minority children between the ages of four and 16 who do not speak English as their first language.
"I had spent most of my time at that point doing a lot of skill building.
I thought maybe it was time to give back. When I went to Yale to do my one-year master's, again I remember thinking 'what can I do?'. I was a teaching assistant for one semester... which was really fun," said Mr Maniam. It was then that it started to crystalise in his mind that he enjoyed the process of nurturing very much.
He said: "One thing I enjoyed as a prefect (in Raffles Institution) and as a student leader in different capacities... is watching people get better at what they are doing, as that kernel of understanding takes form and grows."
