SINGAPORE - While the Workers' Party (WP) may have won the Hougang by-election by a impressive margin, WP head Low Thia Khiang was not all smiles at the party's press conference held at its headquarters last night.
In a statement read out to the press, Mr Low stated his extreme disappointment at what he called the People's Action Party's (PAP) 'calculate moves' to discredit their candidate Mr Png Eng Huat.
He also said that the main stream media was being used as a political tool by the PAP, and that this is an indication that the PAP, despite appearing to be receptive, responsive and open, has hardened its position since the General Election (GE).
Mr Low said he had been optimistic after last year's GE that the Government would respect the freedom of political choice and fair play, and that the country would move forward towards building a democratic society.
However, he said that this by-election was characterised by "baseless attacks, distractions, character assassinations, and veiled threats of using government resources as a carrot and stick to coerce voters."
He urged the Government to stop its refusal to grant equal rights to the constituency, which has not seen an upgrade for 21 years.
Several times during the interview, he expressed disappointment in the mainstream media.
He said that one example of the mainstream media being bias is that the press repeatedly published photos of their rallies showing WP heavy weights Mr Low and chairman Sylvia Lim in front, with Mr Png standing behind.
He questioned what sort of image the press was trying to insinuate.
He also accused the media of phrasing the headlines of articles on PAP's comments on Mr Png in a negative manner amounting to "character assassination", and alleged that the WP's replies to the accusations were hidden deep within the articles.
He acknowledged that the media has given equal coverage to both parties this election, but said the issue is the content of the articles and how they are slanted.
"The headings of the photos are very misleading," he said, expressing disappointment that the by-election had 'degenerated' to this stage.
He warned that it will be a step back for democracy if this continues.
