SMRT is in the process of changing third-rail joints where hairline cracks have been discovered. This is on top of weekly checks which will be conducted where the cracks are minor, to monitor the condition of the rail.
These are some of the measures proposed by SMRT which have received approval from the Land Transport Authority (LTA).
In a statement yesterday, SMRT added that its current maintenance process based on the original manufacturer's recommendation requires it only "to check for visible defects on the third rail".
The hairline cracks, discovered by a panel of foreign experts, and revealed at a Committee of Inquiry (COI) hearing on Tuesday, are blocked by the hulk-bolted fishplates which hold the third-rail joints together. Thus, they are not visible during routine inspections.
To address this, a system-wide check for all 13,000 pairs of third-rail joints - similar to the areas where the hairline cracks were found - will be carried out, said SMRT.
They may include the use of ultrasonic tests to detect flaws that cannot be spotted visually. It will begin in "crucial areas" like the city centre and will be completed in 18 months.
At yesterday's COI hearing, Chief District Judge Tan Siong Thye suggested that since the third rail - which supplies power to the trains - appears to be more vulnerable compared to the train tracks, it may require "more attention" when it comes to maintenance. Currently, maintenance checks for the third rail and train tracks are done once every four to six months.
But Mr Tan said that since the third rail has a "different inherent reliability" compared to the train tracks, its maintenance and inspection schedule should be more frequent. The foreign panel initially disagreed, as the members felt that the focus should still be placed on the train tracks due to safety issues.
Mr Ben Harding, a director of British engineering firm Atkins, said: "The consequences of a failure of the train tracks are potentially much higher than the failure of the third rail."
This is because while a faulty third rail may cause inconvenience, such as stalled trains, a faulty track could cause trains to derail, leading to the loss of lives, he added.
