The China Post--Legendary former Chicago Bulls' forwards Scottie Pippen and Dennis Rodman, together with a dozen retired National Basketball Association (NBA) players, will visit Taiwan this July for an exhibition game in the southern city of Kaohsiung, the event's organizer announced yesterday.
Kenny Kao, general manager of the Professional Basketball Alumni-Taiwan (PBAT), the event organizer, said at a press conference in Taipei that the "All-Star Alumni Kaohsiung" exhibition game, to be held July 21 at Kaohsiung Arena, will be the first ever held in Taiwan to feature an entire team of former NBA players.
The NBA alumni team will be facing a Taiwanese All-Star team consisting of players in the local semiprofessional Super Basketball League, Kao said
The roster includes the two biggest names in Taiwan basketball, star forwards Chen Hsin-an and Garrett Tien.
"I am a big fan of Pippen and I am really excited about the upcoming match-up with him and extremely looking forward to it," Tien told media yesterday. Speaking at the press conference, Chairman of the U.S. Professional Basketball Alumni Association Charles Smith said that the NBA team's lineup also includes another former Bulls' forward Horace Grant, as well as Sacramento Kings' point guard Jason Williams and shooting guard Mitch Richmond, together with another seven players.
"These players are all excited to come to Taiwan and ready to put on a great show for local fans," he said.
Pippen, Rodman and Grant were key players assisting Michael Jordan during the Bulls' dominance of the NBA in the 1990s during which the Chicago team won six championship titles.
Fan-favorite Williams is famous for his dazzling dribbling and passing skills while Richmond is a renowned three-point-shooter, the organizer said.
The group of NBA players will be arriving Kaohsiung on July 19 for a four-day-trip. They will also participate in charity events during their stay.
Ticket prices range from NT$500 to NT$4,500 and will be available starting this Sunday
