Eighteen athletes have been given the nod by the Singapore National Olympic Council (SNOC) for next month's London Games.
But that number could increase when world swimming body Fina finalises its list of competitors after the qualifying deadline on Monday .
There are 10 swimmers who have met the Olympic 'B' qualifying marks and stand a chance, although they will have to wait to see if they will be on the plane bound for London.
The 2012 Olympics will be held in the English capital from July 27 to Aug 12.
The 18 athletes were endorsed by an eight-man selection panel headed by Deputy Prime Minister and SNOC president Teo Chee Hean.
Among the names announced yesterday were paddlers Feng Tianwei, Li Jiawei, Wang Yuegu, Gao Ning, Yang Zi and Zhan Jian.
Feng, Li and Wang combined to clinch the women's team silver in Beijing in 2008.
Swimmer Tao Li, who finished fifth in the women's 100m butterfly final four years ago, has yet to secure her place but should be in the contingent as one of the best 'B' qualifiers in the event.
Singapore will compete in eight sports in London, up from six in 2008.
For the first time, the Republic will be represented in gymnastics and canoeing by Lim Heem Wei and Geraldine Lee, respectively.
Also among the debutants are track and field athletes Gary Yeo and Dipna Lim-Prasad.
The Singapore Athletic Association (SAA) nominated the duo, along with triple jumper Stefan Tseng and sprinter Valerie Pereira, for two unused quota places - one for each gender.
SNOC secretary general Chris Chan said yesterday the track and field nominations were submitted to the International Association of Athletics Federations, who then made the decision.
Lim-Prasad, 21, a graduate of the Singapore Sports School, said on Friday: "It all feels so surreal now. We were always asked in school if we wanted to go to the Olympics and our default answer was 'yes'.
"I was a good athlete then but not the best, so to be selected now for the Games is a dream come true, even if it sounds like a cliche."
Yeo is now on the brink of joining a small group of local athletes who have competed at the SEA Games, Commonwealth Games, Asian Games and the Olympics.
The 25-year-old, who won a silver in the men's 100m at last year's SEA Games, said: "It is always an honour to represent Singapore and I hope I can do well there.
"I have been training hard since the SAA nominated me, regardless of whether I would eventually go, and I have even planned a month-long training trip to Osaka next week. "
Right now, Joseph Schooling is the only swimmer to have met the Olympic 'A' mark in the men's 100m butterfly.
