Cradled by a blanket of water, you wait poised for action in a semi-hunched position.
Then as the speedboat picks up pace, your body eases upright and the gliding begins.
Flying on water?
Pretty close.
It's called wakeboarding.
Essentially, a rider is strapped into booties on a board - once up, the rider can start changing directions, and then he or she uses the pull of the boat and the "wake" left behind the boat to achieve jumps and air time.
But that simply whets your appetite for more - complex tips and tricks, which often require suspension in mid-air.
Grabs, tootsie rolls, S-bends, and inverts: These are quite a sight to behold, and these aerial stunts are the real hooks for seasoned wakeboarders who keep returning for their fix.
"The initial rush which comes when you first learn to stand on a wakeboard is quite special, but there's an even greater sense of achievement when you begin learning new tricks, which require jumping and landing.
"That's really exciting," says regular wakeboarder Miss Tan York Cheng, 36, a lecturer at a polytechnic here.
The sport, developed from surfing and waterskiing, incorporates aspects of skateboarding and snowboarding.
"It's a multi-level sport. No matter how good you get, you won't get stuck. There's always something new to pick up, things to improve on," says veteran wakeboarder Mr David Ngiam, who also owns the local wakeboarding go-to website wake.sg
Inverts, in particular, are a category of tricks popular with many wakeboarders, says the general manager of a distribution company.
They involve bringing the wakeboard to head-level while performing flips and somersaults.
Wakeboarding with a speedboat is one of the two variations of the sport.
The other involves being pulled along by a cable.
Boat wakeboarding is easier to pick up, although it can be more intense, says Mr Ngiam.
"With the cable, there's a little more waiting time before you go again, whereas with the boat you just keep going,"he says.
Miss Tan, who picked up the sport six years ago, is so devoted to it that she feels out of sorts when she has to miss out on a weekly session.
"It's the activity I look forward to at the end of the week.
"Sometimes my work takes me on overseas trips for about three weeks at a time, and I really miss it when I can't do it," she confesses.
It is not a cheap sport - regular wakeboarders like graphic designer David Tan spend about $600 a month on it.
Indeed, the high costs required by the sport is why wakeboarding instructor Paul Tan reckons the circle of local wakeboarders is a modest one.
"Usually people who do it regularly have quite a bit of disposable income," says the man, who has been giving lessons since 1996.
Mr Ngiam's website, which has a total of 4,000 users, estimates that about half of them wakeboard at least once a month.
Most are between 25 and 35 years old. But Singapore has produced champions among this small group.
The nation's top female wakeboarder, Sasha Christian, picked up the sport when she was just five.
Last year, the 18-year-old went on to clinch a gold medal at the SEA games.
Her brother, Max, 21, won a bronze medal in the men's wakeboard event.
The sport has, admittedly, a steep learning curve at the beginning. Mr David Tan admits he needed three lessons just to learn to balance on the board.
"I think I almost drowned the first time I tried it,"says the 37-year-old with a laugh.
But once you've got the hang of it, the thrill and enjoyment of riding the waves makes it all worth it, he says.
He has taken part in six or seven wakeboarding competitions in Malaysia and Singapore over the past seven years.
Adds Mr Ngiam: "If you have an aptitude or experience in board sports like skateboarding or snow skiing, it's naturally easier.
"But even if you don't, it's like riding a bike. Once you get it, everything from then on gets easier."
The figure-conscious will be happy to note the effects of wakeboarding.
Within six months of picking the sport up, Mr Tan lost 10kg.
"About seven years ago, I was 79kg. Within six months, I dropped to 70kg," says Mr Tan, who also cycles and works out at the gym.
This avid sportsman makes it a point not to miss Singapore's biggest extreme sports event that incorporates both land and water action sports competitions - The Mettle Games.
The event, which is usually held in the last few months of each year, includes other sports such as aggressive in-line skating and skateboarding.
For wakeboarding, a panel of judges evaluates the routines and stunts, with points given according to variety, intensity and technicality of stunts.
Mr Tan, who intends to take part this year, says he is looking forward to the challenge.
In previous competitions, he clinched one of the top three positions.
"Instead of once a week, I think I'll be wakeboarding twice when the date draws nearer," he says with a grin.
I have never water-skiied, cable-skiied nor skateboarded.
And my ability to snowboard or ski is half-baked at best.
So I don't know why the prospect of trying to wakeboard for the first time seemed such an exciting one.
I'm a pretty strong swimmer and usually feel at home in the water.
How hard could it be?
All I have to do is to chuck my feet into the boots then go with the flow of the waves, right?
Wrong.
I managed to get onto a semi-standing position on the board after about four to five tries.
Heart soaring, the focused expression on my face relaxed into a bright smile.
But it didn't stay for long before I performed a full face-plant five seconds later.
As unglamorous as it was, I reckoned it was not too bad for a complete beginner.
It was trying to do this again which proved to be the real challenge.
Forget the flips and stunts.
As hard as I tried during the subsequent attempts, I simply could not stand up.
The instructor was spot-on when he kept telling me the number one rule in wakeboarding is not to pull at the rope.
Use your legs to balance, not your arms, which should be kept relaxed, he added.
Let's just say I was tugging at the rope for all I was worth to get stability.
I simply couldn't get it.
It wasn't long before I had enough for the day. The whole affair lasted about 45 minutes.
My advice for fellow wakeboarding newbies?
Don't go in thinking it will be a piece of cake.
But here's one of the many nice bits if you're not into jumps and flips: I know I got a pretty good workout too.
Bits of me I never knew had muscles were aching the next day. It's all good, I say.
Edge Wakeboarding
Where: 600, Punggol 17th Avenue, Marina Country Club Singapore.
Opening hours: 7am to 7pm
Charges: $120 per hour including instructor, boat and gear.
Call: 63866634 to book
Wake Pirates
Where: SAF Yacht Club, Sembawang Clubhouse, 43 Admiralty Road West
Opening hours: Sunrise to sunset
Charges: $85 per hour on weekdays and $95 on weekends. Includes instructor, boat, and gear.
Call: 98457452 to book
Ski360 (for Cable boarding)
Where: 1206A East Coast Parkway
Opening hours: Weekdays: 10am to 7pm; Weekends: 9am to 10pm
Charges: $32 per hour on weekdays, and $42 per hour on weekends.
If an instructor is required, fees are at $30 per hour for both weekdays and weekends.
Call: 64427318 to book
