COOL, calm, and composed - that was Lim Yee Xien during her interview with The New Paper.
They are all attributes the 15-year-old picked up through her sport - shooting.
Yee Xien, from Nanyang Girls' High School's (NYGH) shooting club, could well be the next household name in her sport in Singapore.
She first won the National Schools' title in 2010, defended it last year and only just lost out this year.
"For the first 10 to 20 shots (out of a total of 40), I didn't shoot as well as I would have wanted to and I started getting a little nervous," said Yee Xien, recalling her battle in this year's competition.
"I was worried that I might pull the team's results down."
But her coach Zhang Chun Hui called for a timeout, calmed her down and told her to treat it like a normal practice session.
It worked - Yee Xien did better in the next round, eventually scoring a total of 390 points, just two behind the winner.
More importantly, it helped NYGH clinch the B Division team title.
"I cried after the competition - the worry, the guilt and the relief that had been bottling up inside just came out," she said.
"It was quite embarrassing as I'm quite introverted and am not the kind who will cry in public."
She did not start out a champion.
"During the CCA (co-curricular activities) tryouts when I was in Secondary 1, all of my shots failed to hit the target," she revealed.
"Back then, I never really thought about joining the shooting club and I even thought that it was archery."
The air rifle is something she has grown to love.
Said Yee Xien: "At first, I just went in with a 'try and see' attitude, but then I had great satisfaction in making good shots."
Shooting, she says, is something that suits her personality.
"When I tell people that I'm involved in sports, they tend to have the impression that I do a lot of physical training," said Yee Xien, who does run in her own time.
"But shooting involves lots of perseverance and mental strength and, as I'm not the extroverted kind, I think it suits me."
On Yee Xien's strengths, Zhang said: "She doesn't get nervous when she encounters tense situations.
"Even I myself can get nervous while observing them during competitions, but Yee Xien rarely cracks under pressure."
She's equally calm and composed at home.
Lim Kui Hoon, Yee Xien's father, says she's very low-key and hardly shows any emotion even after a win.
Cheryl Lee, Yee Xien's best friend and teammate, says the star shooter is invaluable to her teammates.
"She takes training seriously even when our coach is away," said Cheryl, 16.
"And she commands the respect of the juniors too as she'll tell them to be respectful to our coach."
Last month, Yee Xien's potential was recognised by the Singapore Shooting Association and she was invited to join the national youth team.
"I have accepted the offer and am really excited about it," she said.
"It's a rare opportunity and it'll be a waste if I don't take it."
Dad Lim, 50, said: "When she told us the news, I was very surprised and excited, and I've encouraged her to accept the offer."
Yee Xien, who has two older sisters and one younger brother, is thankful her parents have always been supportive of her involvement in the sport.
She said: "They don't say things like, 'I know you'll do well', when competitions are near because they know I'll feel pressurised by such words."
Even though shooting might not be as physical as other sports, shooters are still as susceptible to injuries like any other athlete.
Initially, Yee Xien often had abrasions on the knuckles of her left hand caused by the weight of the rifle.
Zhang revealed that even when her hand was bandaged, Yee Xien would continue with training and not complain about the pain.
She trains three times a week, and because she has to lock her knees throughout her two-hour sessions, she usually has trouble walking when it ends. But she has taken it all in her stride.
Naturally, Lim is proud of his daughter.
"I'm very pleased with her," said her father, who is an engineer.
"She's very disciplined, and independent. She sleeps at 10.30 every night and wakes up on time every morning, even on weekends."
So what are her sporting dreams in the future?
"I would like to take it one step at a time, because I don't want to think too far ahead," said Yee Xien, whose favourite singer is Taylor Swift and has taught herself the guitar.
"But if the opportunity to participate in overseas competitions comes, I'll be honoured to take it."
