As the ball is whizzed around the football pitch, all eyes are usually focused on the players.
And most fans tend to overlook arguably the most important person on the field - the man in the middle - at least until he makes a mistake.
Quietly but firmly, the match referee is required to maintain the flow of the game, control the players and make key decisions during the game.
But the job of officiating, and handling 22 players, coaches, and the crowd, is by no means a walk in the park, according to some referees whom The New Paper spoke to.
Referees have been thrust into the limelight this week.
Last Saturday, referee T Aravinthan allegedly turned up drunk for a National Football League (NFL) match, which had to be called off.
A day later, the Division Three match between Dare to Dream FC and Newton Heath was abandoned after a player spat at referee Erza Aripin.
And on Thursday, Malaysian referee Shokri Nor was hauled to court in Singapore on match-fixing charges involving the LionsXII versus Sarawak Malaysian Super League match last Tuesday.
As much as the incidents are "isolated cases", they highlight the difficulties faced by the men in black, said referee Adly Esmadi.
The 44-year-old, who has been officiating NFL games since 1995, said: "Everyone is human, and we're all prone to that one moment of weakness and temptation.
"Perhaps (Aravinthan and Shokri) had some personal and money problems (respectively)."
As in the case of Erza, he agreed that the amount of abuse received by referees has grown over the years.
"When I first started out, the players used to respect the referees' decisions," said Adly.
"Today, players are constantly arguing with the referees, and using abusive language - even to the extent of insulting one's parents.
"It's not so bad in the S-League, but the players in the NFL are amateurs, so they can get carried away."
Detached attitude
But former Fifa referee Francis Lee urged the officials not to get affected by the players' reactions.
"What I would do is to adopt a 'one ear in, one ear out' mentality," he said.
It was a sentiment shared by referee instructor Suresh Nair, a former referee who had put in 15 years of service.
"The verbal and physical abuse is an occupational hazard, and referees must always be prepared to face the worst," he said.
"Regardless of the circumstances, a referee must always maintain his composure, and keep the integrity of the game."
While he admitted that it is not easy to be a role model, even off the pitch, referees must respect the profession.
"Even though it may not be a full-time profession, you must be prepared to accept the laws of being a referee if you've agreed to be one," he said.
Nair, who currently trains the S-League referees, defends the integrity of S-League referees.
He said: "The past few incidents have not been pleasant to hear about, but they are a good wake-up call for all the officials to set even higher standards."
