Singapore Rugby Union president Low Teo Ping tells Lim Say Heng that the Rugby Lions' recent relegation from the Asian Five Nations Division 1 is part of rebuilding process.
LOW: No, we are in a rebuilding process. We intend to develop a Singaporean national team, but it does not mean that we should not consider expatriates when necessary.
For example, if we don't have Singaporeans who are big enough, then we will not do justice to our team by pitting the smaller players against teams with big players.
The rules allow for expatriates, so we have some flexibility, but for all intent and purposes, we are moving towards a more local team.
Also, we were at a disadvantage because the tournament was moved forward. We did protest against the decision, but it was for the good of Asian rugby, so we've got to tweak our leagues from next season onwards.
We are not calling it a disaster, we're also doing so many other things that can only be good for the future. But it cannot happen tomorrow.
At the end of the day, it is still a national team. We've got to develop Singaporeans in the long term so that there is a semblance of a national team.
And since we are using taxpayers' money, we have the responsibility to do so.
We can make it up through other things, such as speed. I don't think size is so important that it is forever a disadvantage.
It is a question of building good team spirit, teamwork and upgrading skills.
Those are moving targets, If we can have a team of 15 locals, then so be it.
But when we cannot get players with the right physique, and the rules allow for the inclusion of expatriates, then why don't we use it?
I would say we are in the first half of the total phase, maybe 30 per cent done. It might take two or three years more.
They are the usual challenges of employment, school exams and National Service.
Safsa (Singapore Armed Forces Sports Association) has dropped rugby and introduced tag rugby at unit level, but there are enough boys going into the National Service who can play rugby while serving their country.
It definitely doesn't make our job easier when we do all these grassroots stuff (see side story) only to be affected by some of these bottlenecks.
It's not as if we sit back and live with the fact that our men's team were relegated to Division II.
We are really doing things to reconstruct, rejuvenate and reconfigure ourselves, and hopefully some of these things will eventually become part of the DNA of Singapore rugby.
We definitely want to win the gold medals at stake.
We've already identified a men's Sevens squad, which we sent to Melrose (Rugby Club in Scotland) recently.
This bunch of 20 players are from different clubs but train together, with the aim of improving their skills.
We are also in the midst of starting a Sevens squad for the women as well, with the SEA Games in mind.
Both teams will have opportunities to gain experience and exposure along the way.
