MOSCOW - Russia's swimmers go into their national championships here on Tuesday with not only Olympic places at stake but also a determination to go on to London and erase memories of the team's dreadful performances in the 2008 Games.
Russian swimming team head coach Andrei Vorontsov said he was confident that the team which would emerge from the championships would improve on their Beijing record of one silver and two bronze medals.
"This year we already tested some of our best swimmers at the competitions in Saint Petersburg in March," Vorontsov said.
"The results that were clocked at the event gave us reason for optimism. Some athletes already recorded results better than the required Olympic qualification.
"I believe we will be able to select a competitive team for the London Olympics, which will perform well at the Games."
Vorontsov said he was especially encouraged by the performances of Anastasia Zueva in backstroke and Vyacheslav Sinkevich in breaststroke at Saint Petersburg.
"Zueva recorded the season's second best time in the world at 100 metres and third at 200 metres, while Sinkevich's time in the 200 metres was a bit better than the Olympic qualifying standard."
The head coach added he was expecting the Russian swimmers, who were training abroad and did not compete at Saint Petersburg, to produce top-class results at the championships.
He named Arkady Vyatchanin, who won Russia's two bronze medals at Beijing, Yevgeny Korotyshkin, who prepared for the event under Italian coach Andrea di Ninno, Andrei Grechin and Yulia Efimova as their main medal hopes in London.
Vorontsov also said he was expecting classy results from two-time short course world champion Stanislav Donets, who has recently recovered from a shoulder injury.
Korotyshkin said he couldn't wait to get started so he could test his physical fitness, just over three months before the start of the Olympics.
"I was working really hard in Serbia with di Ninno and added three kilograms of muscle bulk to my body there," said Korotyshkin.
"I'm confident that I took a step forward in gaining my top form for the Olympics."
Korotyshkin, the world short-course 100m butterfly record holder, also said that he was still working on small details of his technique.
Backstroke specialist Donets said he was hoping to succeed at the Olympics.
"I managed to recover completely from a shoulder injury and the surgery I had to undergo," he said.
"Now I am feeling very good and I'm dreaming of qualifying for the Olympics and perform well there."
