Hollywood celebrities like Kate Hudson and Scarlett Johansson have been spotted wearing them.
Last week, former foreign minister George Yeo posted a photo of the funky-looking footwear on his Facebook page with the caption, "Two rounds 8.6 km in 54 mins".
These five-toed, rubber-like shoes - sold under the brand Vibram FiveFingers - are the latest trend in running apparel.
Trade magazine Footwear News dubbed it the most popular trend in footwear in its Readers' Choice poll last year.
Using the theory that regular cushioned running shoes promote landing heavily on the heel, this footwear is made to mimic the experience of running without shoes, hence the layman's term "barefoot running".
When they were introduced here in 2009, there were initial objections and concerns from consumers on the lack of cushioning, shock absorption and perceived support from the shoes, says Ms Jessie Poh, marketing director of Innovatez, which distributes the Vibram Fivefingers here.
"Consumers also had to get over the look of such weird-looking shoes," she adds with a smile.
But sales are on the rise and, while Vibram FiveFingers are the best known among the brands, the big boys in sportswear have also muscled in on the trend, though not all follow the five-toe design.
Nike has its Nike Free and last month, Adidas launched the adipure Trainer.
Advocates say that these shoes "teach" you to run in the right manner - landing on the mid-foot - which is supposed to reduce the risk of injuries. Critics argue that barefoot running comes with its own risks.
The New Paper on Sunday got a sports physiotherapist and a personal trainer to give us their views. Alliance Sports physiotherapist Linda Kwek, 35, is not so convinced.
She says: "Barefoot-running shoes are not suitable for everyone, just as not all running shoe models are suitable for everyone.
If you already have pre-existing structural problems, you can end up with foot, knee, hip or back injuries.
"It is all about technique to land on the mid-foot when running. Barefoot-running shoes may encourage mid-foot landing, but even then, you can still injure yourself."
Madam Kwek would only recommend such shoes for people who already have the right technique and who don't have pre-existing conditions and structural issues.
She advises a consultation with a physiotherapist, who can help you assess if you have any pre-existing injuries or conditions.
She also says that people need a "run-in" period with the shoes to get used to them.
For all of that, she notes that there is no evidence from controlled trials that can "prove that barefoot-running shoes are better than cushioned ones or that they give better performance".
Miss Liew Wei Yong, 32, a personal trainer and fitness manager with local gym Absolut Living, is an advocate of these shoes.
She says: "Barefoot-running shoes help to strengthen muscles in the feet, ankles and lower legs, and improve balance and agility, whereas thick cushioning shoes don't allow you to exercise those muscles much."
The footwear also teaches you to run and land your feet in the right manner.
She explains: "The correct way to run is to land on your mid-foot, instead of your heel. Barefoot-running shoes will allow you to feel how your feet land.
"Thick cushioning in shoes is too comfortable and does not allow you to work your foot muscles. Injuries tend to occur when your foot muscles are weak."
An ultra-marathoner, Miss Liew first saw the Vibram Fivefingers in 2008 on a runner when she competed in the 250km stage race in the Gobi Desert in China.
"I thought those shoes looked really weird but interesting, with the five toes sticking out," says Miss Liew, who bought her first pair of Vibram Fivefingers 11/2 years ago. She uses them during training to build up the muscles in her legs, but not for long races.
She says: "These shoes are not meant for long-distance running. You will get blisters. They are good for training and running shorter distances.
"I wear them to run from my home in Commonwealth to work on Beach Road. That's only 12km."
