I will be the first to admit - it's been a disappointing week for the LionsXII.
Two consecutive draws against Kedah and Kuala Lumpur have left us too far behind in the Malaysian Super League title race.
People have been asking me why the sudden collapse.
I tell them that in a league campaign, every team will go through high and low periods.
There will be a phase where results won't go for you, where a team will suffer from injuries, suspensions and a loss of form.
These last four games, since our defeat to Kelantan, has been our low phase.
But we will bounce back.
We are already working hard on the pitch to rectify our weaknesses through video analysis.
It's difficult to predict whether Kelantan will go through a similar "low phase".
It all depends on a team's depth.
Kelantan have a big, mature squad with a number of Malaysian internationals as well as two foreigners.
For us, it's a different ball game. We have senior players and junior players.
And when senior players like Shahril Ishak, Baihakki Khaizan and Isa Halim are out, the younger ones have to fill in.
Sometimes they cover well, but sometimes they fall short - and that's when the team strike an imbalance and we drop points.
The 0-0 draw with KL was a tough result to take.
But I must say that KL are a much improved team since the early part of the season.
They have been grinding out results lately - against Sarawak (1-1) and they only lost to T-Team (1-2) due to a last-minute goal.
With the inclusion of their two foreigners, they have become a better side, and they really gave us a hard fight on Tuesday.
We were unlucky not to beat them though. We had the better chances, and under normal circumstances, the ball would have gone in.
Firdaus Kasman missed a sitter in the first half, which should have given us the win.
If Shahril had been in that position, the outcome would have been different.
Again, that's the difference between senior and junior players.
Now, our priority is second place in the league.
If someone had told me before the start of this season that we would finish second, I would've taken it with two hands.
Competing against Malaysian state teams with foreign players, it's a big achievement.
The foreign players make a big difference.
I don't think Kedah would have come away with a draw against us if not for their two imports.
In our first year back, we have made a big impact, especially in filling the Jalan Besar Stadium for every home game.
It sets a good tone for the Malaysia Cup knock-out stages after the league ends.
And that is our next priority.
The Malaysia Cup is a very prestigious tournament for every team. It is THE tournament, and once the Cup draw is made, you will see Malaysian football come alive.
I remember when I won the Cup with Kedah in 1990.
When we returned to Alor Setar, the streets were filled with people.
Everyone left their kampungs to come out and celebrate.
And the team went straight from the airport to the Sultan's Istana.
The euphoria was the same for the Lions when they won it in 1994.
A good run in the Malaysia Cup is important for us.
But whatever happens, the boys should take credit and be proud of themselves for what they've achieved so far.
They've brought the roar back, they've shown character on and off the pitch, and players like Shahril and Hariss Harun have now become personalities to the public.
We have already succeeded on so many levels.
