LONDON - US Open champion Samantha Stosur and ex-French Open winner Li Na reached the Wimbledon second round on Monday as marquee names Novak Djokovic, Roger Federer and Maria Sharapova waited to make their bow.
Stosur, the fifth-seeded Australian, had the honour of being the first woman into the last 64, cruising past Spain's 40th-ranked Carla Suarez Navarro 6-1, 6-3.
The 28-year-old Stosur, who was a semi-finalist at the French Open earlier this month, has never got beyond the third round at the All England Club and had been beaten in the first round in 2010 and 2011.
Her win earned her a second round match with either Arantxa Rus of the Netherlands or Japanese lucky loser Misaki Doi.
Chinese 11th seed Li Na, the 2011 French Open winner, enjoyed an emphatic 6-3, 6-1 victory over Ksenia Pervak of Kazakhstan.
Li had beaten Pervak by the same score at the same stage of the Australian Open.
After a frustrating claycourt campaign, which included a disappointing fourth round defeat at the French Open, Li looked at home on the grass, brushing aside the 21-year-old in little more than an hour.
Li, knocked out in the second round by big-serving German Sabine Lisicki 12 months ago, set up a second round meeting with Romania's Sorana Cirstea.
Third seeded Pole, Agnieszka Radwanska, a quarter-finalist in 2008 and 2009, made the second round with a 6-3, 6-3 win over Slovakia's Magdalena Rybarikova.
The 23-year-old Radwanska will tackle either five-time champion Venus Williams, who is unseeded this year, or Russia's Elena Vesnina.
Lisicki, the 15th seed, also made the second round with a 6-4, 6-2 win over Croatia's Petra Martic, who made the fourth round at Roland Garros this year.
Flavia Pennetta, the 16th seed, was knocked out by compatriot and qualifier Camila Giorgi, 6-4, 6-3.
Later Monday, world number one and defending champion Djokovic opens action on Centre Court, wary of the threat posed by former French Open winner Juan Carlos Ferrero.
Djokovic, who defeated Rafael Nadal in last year's final for a maiden victory at the All England Club, hasn't played since losing to the Spaniard in the final at Roland Garros two weeks ago.
That defeat ended his hopes of becoming just the third man to hold all four Grand Slam titles at once.
Djokovic split his first two meetings with former world number one Ferrero, but hasn't played the Spaniard in five years.
"He definitely has a lot of experience playing on the big stage, so I'm not underestimating him, that's for sure," said Djokovic.
"It's going to be a good first round match. Everybody who follows tennis, especially us, the tennis players, we really respect him a lot."
Women's number one Sharapova, who completed a career Grand Slam with victory at the French Open, is second-up on Centre Court where she meets Australia's Anastasia Rodionova.
Sharapova, the 2004 champion, has beaten Rodionova four times in four meetings without dropping a set.
On Court One, six-time champion Federer begins his campaign against Spanish left-hander Albert Ramos.
Unseeded Kim Clijsters, a four-time Grand Slam title winner, who will retire after the US Open, meets fellow former world number one Jelena Jankovic, the 18th seed.
