One four-letter word and a whole lot of problems.
Home United midfielder John Wilkinson has got himself into hot water with the club after using the F-word in a furious reaction to being substituted in an AFC Cup match away at Myanmar's Yangon United on April 3.
The British-born Singaporean has not seen even a minute's action for the Protectors in their five games since.
Wilkinson was hauled off by Home coach Lee Lim Saeng after just 18 minutes against Yangon.
The New Paper understands that the former South Korean international defender was upset at the midfielder for not playing to his instructions.
As Wilkinson walked off the pitch at the Thuwanna Stadium to be replaced by Firdaus Idros, he expressed his frustration by yelling "f*** off" in the general direction of the bench.
However, it is understood the 32-year-old midfielder later apologised to Lee, as well as the rest of the team, for his outburst.
Wilkinson, who won the last of his 29 international caps in a 1-0 Asian Cup qualifier win over Thailand in 2009, told TNP yesterday he only wanted to look forward.
"I've put this incident behind me and I'm ready to play," he said, hinting at his frustrations of sitting on the bench.
"At the start of the season, I made a commitment to the (Home) chairman to help the club win the S-League championship, and nothing has changed since."
Following the Yangon game, Wilkinson was dropped from Home's 18-man matchday squad that beat Harimau Muda 2-1 five days later.
And although he was named on the bench for the AFC Cup games against Yangon at home (April 11) and Hong Kong's Citizen (April 24), and S-League games against Brunei DPMM (April 19) and Tanjong Pagar last Saturday, he was never brought on.
In addition, he was slapped with a $1,000 fine by the club as a punishment for his outburst in Myanmar.
But while the player seems eager to put the incident behind him and clock the minutes on the field, his coach may not be as willing.
Lee declined to comment on the incident when TNP contacted him yesterday, but it is understood his refusal to pick the player stems from the episode.
But assistant coach Baek Jong Seok said: "At the moment, I don't think John will be given a chance in the next game (Woodlands Wellington on Saturday).
"In the 1-0 loss to Tanjong Pagar, head coach did not bring him on because, in his opinion, John would not have been able to do something to change the game.
"But ultimately it's up to head coach, and it is his decision alone."
This is not the first time in Lee's three-year reign at Home that he has clashed with his star players.
Peres de Oliveira, the 2003 S-League Player of the Year, fell out with him following Home's pre-season tour of Thailand in January 2010.
After being barred from training with the rest of the team, Home and de Oliveira eventually agreed on a mutual termination of the player's contract in March that year.
Former Home defender Shariff Samat was also eventually shown the door at the club at the end of 2010, after arguing with Lee during training sessions.
Wilkinson will be hoping his predicament does not lead to a similar unhappy ending.
