There are some preconceived notions that Mark Fischer has faced about mixed martial arts (MMA) in Asia.
These include: a bloodsport; a cousin of the World Wrestling Entertainment; diluting traditional martial arts by mixing them together.
But he is keen to correct them.
The managing director (Asia) of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) - the world's most popular MMA event - has been working hard since 2010 to expand the brand's presence in Asia, after almost 20 years since it was established in the United States.
And while promoting the sport in certain Asian countries - such as South Korea, Japan and China - may have its advantages, given their traditions in martial arts such as taekwondo, karate and wushu, that background can be a double-edged sword as well.
Fischer mused: "Initially and superficially, we were facing some reluctance and misunderstanding from some of the established martial arts.
But now, both MMA and the UFC are very well accepted because MMA is emerging as the most popular martial art from the fan's point of view."
He added that the investment that goes into MMA will help traditional ones by "keeping them popular and more relevant" because of the strong grounding in various martial arts needed to excel in MMA.
The 51-year-old said: "For example, we have been in discussions with the Chinese wushu federation and, after some initial hesitation, they've welcomed UFC to do some co-promotion and training with their san da (sparring) national team.
"They've realised that there's value in crossing over because of the huge global interest in UFC and, by extension, MMA versus traditional ones."
The former senior vice-president and managing director of NBA Asia also sees countries without strong martial arts traditions - such as Singapore - as an opportunity to start on a blank slate.
The company is looking into bringing an UFC event within two years, with Fischer meeting representatives from government agencies such as the Singapore Sports Council, Singapore Tourism Board and Economic Development Board on his recent four-day trip here.
Fischer said: "One of the reasons we're very interested in Singapore as one of the potential locations for UFC events is that it is a regional hub and a great place to come to for a weekend.
"We know that UFC will be an incredible magnet for people from all over the region to come and watch."
