SUNGAI BULOH, Malaysia - Some 50 of the best young footballers from the Felda schemes will have the chance-of-a-lifetime to train at the Cardiff Football Academy.
Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak said the stint in Britain was part of efforts to develop the sport as an industry and a nation-building tool.
"I make this commitment as minister in charge of Felda that I would like to send the best of our Felda kids for a month's training at the academy," he said when launching the 1Malaysia Cardiff City League here yesterday.
"It will be a thrill of a lifetime for them and a chance for them to experience life in Cardiff while developing their football skills," he added.
The Prime Minister expressed confidence that the Felda-sponsored stint would one day see the youngsters become iconic national football players.
Earlier in his speech, Najib noted that football was a sport that shared similar virtues expounded in the 1Malaysia spirit.
"It is able to galvanise the rakyat to work together collectively for the common good of all," he said.
"I believe that the future of Malaysia is all about us and having a sense of belonging where we work, stay and even play together and nothing can be better than to achieve these than through sports," he said.
"If we play as Team Malaysia, all 28 million Malaysians can play' in the spirit of 1Malaysia," he said.
However, he noted that the future of the sport depended on well-coordinated and systematic development of the youth.
"Football is enjoyed with such passion by Malaysians that even at teh tarik stalls, they talk of nothing else but football," he said, adding that as a Manchester United fan he too would get into a banter with his daughter who supports Liverpool.
Najib said the sport could also be developed into an industry with economic spin-offs.
"Sports is not about sports alone," he said. "The industry is linked to national development."
Later at a press conference, 1MCC chairman Datuk Chan Tien Ghee described Najib's initiative as a new development for the sport.
"It is something which would never have been possible in previous years," he said.
