Since last December, Jessie Phua has been on a mission to shed weight.
And Singapore's chef-de-mission for the 2012 Olympic Games, which will be held in London from July 27 to Aug 12, pointed the finger at her daughters.
"My daughters are very wicked, they said, 'Mum, the TV piles on the pounds on a person, you're going to roll into the stadium, you know," the Singapore Bowling Federation president revealed yesterday, laughing as she recalled the conversation.
Phua vowed to be "at least a fitter person", when leading the Singapore contingent into the Olympic Stadium in London for the opening ceremony on July 27.
With 31 days to the opening ceremony, she says her fitness regimen is working, although she declined to reveal how much weight she has lost.
After the London riots last August, Phua felt it was important to develop contingency plans for Team Singapore should anything happen at the Games.
She has already touched base with Singapore's High Commissioner to London T Jasudasen and representatives of the Games organisers.
While Singapore enjoyed their best showing at the 2008 Olympics, the Games in Beijing also threw up controversy.
Without a coach on his side, paddler Gao Ning was distraught after suffering a shock loss to Croatia's Tan Ruiwu in the men's singles.
At the time, Singapore Table Tennis Association president Lee Bee Wah vowed to take action against those responsible, even as then chef-de-mission Dr Tan Eng Liang told the press he had spoken to the player and considered "the case closed".
Two years later at the Commonwealth Games, Singapore's 4x200m freestyle men's relay team were disqualified from the final after national coach Ang Peng Siong - who also served as manager and psychologist in New Delhi - was late in handing in the necessary documentation.
Phua wants no such issues in London, and expects team officials and coaches to act professionally.
"Just as we make the highest demands of our athletes, we should have the same expectations of our officials," she said, revealing that she will hold a meeting with the officials and coaches next week.
"Can we afford another incident such as that in 2008, or 2010 in New Delhi?"
She added: "I will demand more of the officials in London - have they done everything and anything required to ensure their athletes are properly supported so that when they enter the arena, they compete with peace of mind and confidence in their support team?
"There's no excuse. We demand the highest level of professionalism from all the officials.
"I don't want to micro-manage in London, it's not my style because you have to respect that they are the professionals.
"I will definitely tell them during the meeting where the OB markers are ... and after the conversation they will know that I am their best supporter, but their biggest nightmare should they fail in their jobs because I don't want to short-change any athlete, not during my watch.
"I'll be merciless if they do." Since her appointment, Phua has been visting the athletes in training.
Based on her observations, the veteran sports administrator hopes to see better facilities and stronger emphasis on coaches' education in Singapore.
She was surprised when she visited gymnast Lim Heem Wei, who trained in a non-airconditioned facility at the Co-Curricular Activities Branch gymnasium in Evans Road.
She recalled asking an official: "Do they compete in a non-air-conditioned environment?"
Said Phua: "If they are going to compete in an environment that is alien to them, then they are destined to fail.
"I can understand if you cannot afford to provide it across the board, but at least it should be done for the elite group.
"You don't win medals at the Olympics by accident or chance. Things have to be put in place to make the probabilities become possibilities."
After the London Olympics, the Singapore Sports Institute (SSI) will take over the role performed by the Olympic Pathway Programme, which currently provides all the extra support necessary for the country's elite athletes to realise their dream of winning a medal.
Phua expects the SSI to deliver.
"Let them step up to the plate and deliver what is required for the various national sports associations and athletes," she said.
"As you have correctly pointed out, the bar has been raised after our performance in 2008, the expectations are there.
"Can we make sure that we prepare our athletes better?"
