After spending 12 years coaching at Bundesliga heavyweights Bayern Munich, former Malaysian international Lim Teong Kim is receptive to the idea of taking up a post in Singapore.
What interests him most is junior football development with the Football Association of Singapore (FAS).
Lim, 48, who has been coaching Bayern's Under-13 to Under-19 levels since being attached to the club in 2000, believes he is fully qualified for a similar stint in the Far East.
And he thinks Singapore would be an ideal place as youth development interest in the Republic is almost at an all-time high.
In an interview in Munich last month, the former star midfielder who once donned Hertha Berlin's colours, said: "I see that the Lions are back in the Malaysia Cup and you have several development programmes in place.
"I think I could fit in many roles but, of course, the terms of any deal must be a win-win situation for me and the FAS."
Lim had overseen the development of German stars such as Bastian Schweinsteiger and Thomas Mueller, who are now in the German national team.
He would like to see a professional approach to football development and is not one to compromise standards in that direction.
He had a stint with the Football Association of Malaysia in 1999, but cut short his five-year deal as he felt that the administrators did not share his sentiments.
Despite having experienced some differences in opinion, Lim, during a holiday to Malaysia last year, said to a Malaysian newspaper: "I am ever-willing to help Malaysian football but no one wants it sincerely.
"Just look at the field here (Victoria Institution). It is pathetic. Me being here is actually an insult to my profession. But yet I'm here during my holidays to provide the little help I can."
Lim is enjoying his Bayern job as assistant to head coach Kurt Niedemeyer - a former Bayern player who played once for Germany - and in the past year has also been responsible for the progress of two junior players under his wing, namely Diego Contento, 22, and David Alaba, 19, who played in the Champions League last season.
Patrick Ang, former chairman of Geylang United and once an FAS council member who met Lim in Munich two weeks ago, said: "I'd recommend Teong Kim to the FAS. He is a qualified coach with a Uefa Pro Licence and he would be an asset when it comes to football development in Singapore.
"Also he knows LionsXII coach V Sundramoorthy well as he played against him several times in the early Nineties, and I'm sure they can work together in raising local football standards."
Name: Lim Teong Kim
Born: Aug 26, 1963
Place of birth: Malacca
Playing position: Midfielder
Family: Wife Michaela, son Luciano, daughters Lenya and Luisa
Playing career: 1983: Malacca 1984-86: Selangor 1987: Hertha Berlin 1990: Short stint with Austrian outfit Grazer FC 1987-91: Kuala Lumpur 1992-93: Kedah
