The lion motif's gold on their new jerseys represents their ambitions at next month's London Olympics.
But the Games-bound paddlers' quest has taken a setback - temporary or not - with the latest world rankings released on Friday night.
Singapore's top male paddler Gao Ning has dropped two places to 16th, while Feng Tianwei has dropped from eighth to 10th among the women.
The biggest drop among the squad was that of Yang Zi, who fell from 49th to 59th, while Li Hu - who rose from 52nd to 39th - is Singapore's new men's No. 3.
The individual positions will affect the team rankings, which will determine the Olympic seedings.
But Singapore Table Tennis Association (STTA) president Lee Bee Wah was sanguine about the issue on Sunday, on the sidelines of the launch of the team's Olympic jerseys at Velocity@Novena Square.
Asked if she had spoken to the paddlers about their rankings, Ms Lee said: "I leave it to the coaches to talk to them about this, but I've always emphasised to the players that, of course if you're ranked high, it's good.
"But don't keep looking at the rankings.
"There are still many teams and obstacles. We have to be fully prepared and believe every game will be a tough one."
She pointed out that the women's team will still have two International Table Tennis Federation World Tour tournaments - the Japan and Brazil Opens - to improve their placings before London. The slide in the rankings can be attributed to the players' performances at the recent China Open in Shanghai.
There, Gao and Yang lost to lower-ranked opponents in the men's singles first round, while Feng went down 1-4 to Belarus' Viktoria Pavlovich in the round of 16.
Ms Lee acknowledged that there was more pressure on the players in this Olympic campaign, compared to 2008 in Beijing, where the women's team clinched a silver.
About 100 people turned up at the shopping mall's atrium for the jersey launch on Sunday.
The new attire, manufactured by STTA's apparel sponsor Donic, was designed by Benjamin Ng, who won a nationwide design competition launched at last year's Volkswagen Women's World Cup here.
The 47-year-old graphic designer's winning design was inspired by China's attire, which features a dragon head.
