POLAND 1 (Robert Lewandowski 17) GREECE 1 (Dimitris Salpingidis 51)
The facade of the splendid National Stadium resembled a waving Polish flag.
On the inside, the overwhelming majority of the 56,070 spectators decked themselves in the Polish colours of red and white.
In full voice, they turned it into a colosseum where gladiators chewed up the intruders on demand.
Alas, victory wasn't Poland's.
One-nil up against a 10-man Greece, they somehow contrived to lose their goal and numerical advantage and, in the end, held out for a 1-1 draw in the opening match of Euro 2012 in Warsaw last Friday.
This wasn't the script that the Poles had imagined.
This wasn't the feeble attempt that they were expecting.
This sure doesn't look like the defence that could put up the necessary resistance for a place in the knock-out rounds.
An opening-game win would have significantly boosted their chances of progress.
That they didn't, goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny must bear the brunt of the blame.
For he was the one who committed the mistake that led to Greece's equaliser.
And he was the culprit who conceded a penalty and got sent off.
It looked so promising at first.
When Robert Lewandowski sneaked in at the far post in the 17th minute to hand the Euro 2012 co-hosts the lead, the ground turned into a melting pot of joy.
The Borussia Dortmund striker leapt high into the air and pumped his fist in unadulterated joy, as the entire Polish bench rushed towards him at the corner flag for a collective embrace.
In the stands, the red-and-white scarves were whirling, their owners bobbing up and down in unison.
"Lewandowski, Lewandowski," the crowd chanted.
Then it got even better for the Poles a minute before the break, when Greek defender Sokratis Papastathopoulos was harshly booked for a second time, for pulling down Rafal Murawski in a dangerous attacking move.
But then Poland didn't have the technical ability, composure and most of all, the defensive astuteness to shut out the game.
On their grandest footballing night in decades, one of their biggest names froze.
Szczesny, 22, was thought to be the saving grace behind a suspect defence, but he turned out less reliable than the ones he was supposed to protect.
His attempt at claiming Vasilis Torosidis' cross from the right looked pathetic at best - he didn't even get anywhere near the ball.
The ball broke loose, and Dimitris Salpingidis swept it into an unguarded net early in the second half.
Greece were level, but still playing with 10 men, until the Szczesny horror show surfaced once more.
This time, it left Poland on the brink of a total collapse. Salpingidis broke clear of the loose Polish defence, but Szczesny clipped his heels to send him tumbling in the box.
He couldn't keep out the Greeks, and now he couldn't keep himself on the field either. At least his misery ended there and then.
The backline of Sebastian Boenisch, Damien Perquis, Marcin Wasilewski and Lukasz Piszczek continued with their embarrassing showings.
They conceded possession too easily, looked disorganised and had a hard time keeping their shape. They were an opponent's dream, their team's worst nightmare.
Ironically, it was Przemyslaw Tyton, the reserve goalkeeper, who showed the calmness of a veteran.
In the blink of an eye, he became a national hero, saving Giorgos Karagounis' spot-kick to preserve the scoreline.
The Greeks would dominate until the end of the game, testing the shaky home defence and Poland coach Franciszek Smuda's patience to the maximum.
For his rash act, Szczesny will be suspended for the next game.
But Poland's woes won't end because of his absence. The defensive frailties will come back to haunt them if Smuda doesn't find a quick solution.
At the final whistle, the polite applause by the home fans was in stark contrast to the bravado at the first.
There was no reason to celebrate, and there was too much weighing on their minds.
Poland had let slip a golden chance to take the initiative in Group A.
This is one night Szczesny will want to forget in a hurry.
But how do you forget one like that?
IT HAS to be Dimitris Salpingidis. He scored the equaliser, then earned the penalty which captain Giorgos Karagounis failed to convert. All in 45 minutes. The true definition of an impact substitute.
IF POLAND are serious about making it past the group stage, then plenty of work needs to be done at the back. Throughout the game, they were in shambles, losing the ball too easily and struggling to keep their focus.
SOKRATIS Papastathopoulos couldn't quite believe it when he was given the second yellow card. Well, we couldn't either. Neither of his two bookings appeared to warrant yellow cards.
SPARE a thought for the Polish fans. At half-time, it looked impossible for Poland not to win the game, what with a one-goal lead and one-man advantage. But the team let their fans down with a shabby second-half showing.
POLAND: Wojciech Szczesny, Lukasz Piszczek, Marcin Wasilewski, Damien Perquis, Sebastian Boenisch, Jakub Blaszczykowski, Eugen Polanski, Rafal Murawski, Maciej Rybus (Przemyslaw Tyton 70); Ludovic Obraniak; Robert Lewandowski.
GREECE: Kostas Chalkias, Vasilis Torosidis, Avraam Papadopoulos (Kyriakos Papadopoulos 37), Sokratis Papastathopoulos, Jose Holebas, Giannis Maniatis, Kostas Katsouranis, Giorgos Karagounis, Sotiris Ninis (Dimitris Salpingidis 46), Fanis Gekas (Kostas Fortounis 68), Giorgos Samaras.
