Winning titles at a lower level can be a blessing - or a burden.
One can use that as a stepping stone to greater heights or, for Chinese shuttler Wang Zhengming, it can be a rock that ties you down.
The world No. 17, who will be taking part in the Li-Ning Singapore Open from tomorrow to Sunday, reached a career peak in 2008 when he won the boys' singles titles in both the Asian and World Junior Championships.
But success has not followed him at the next tier - the 22-year-old Guangzhou native's only senior-level achievement was finishing second at the 2010 Badminton Asia Championships.
The winner then?
A certain Lin Dan, who is considered one of the greatest players ever.
Of his relative lack of achievements, Wang said: "Yes, I do feel the pressure now to emulate the success I had at the junior level.
"The pressure is bigger recently and it has affected my form."
Along with compatriot Du Pengyu, Wang belongs to a new wave of Chinese shuttlers who may fill the void for the sport's juggernauts when stalwarts such as Lin Dan, Fu Haifeng and Cai Yun eventually retire.
Chinese head coach Li Yongbo addressed the succession issue last month, after his charges won the Thomas Cup for the fifth consecutive time.
He said: "These senior players have not told me of their retirement plans. I want them to stay on until the next Thomas Cup Finals.
"We will have a special programme for them, but I will respect their decision if they want to leave after the London Olympics.
"I guess it all depends on the outcome in London. If they do well, they will stay on."
Rare
Of Lin Dan, Li said: "You get a player like him maybe once in a blue moon."
But Wang and Du are undaunted by the task of following in the world No. 2's gargantuan footsteps. Wang said: "Lin Dan's achievements are unparalleled but I don't feel any pressure. If I want to emulate his achievements, I must work hard every day to inch closer to where he is."
"Brother Dan's achievements are not something that everyone can achieve, but I will try to adopt his good attributes," said World No. 10 Du, 24.
And he is not bothered at all that he has not broken into the world's top five - his best ranking was seventh, around this time last year - whereas Chen Long, 23, is already consistently there.
Du said: "I wouldn't think about what his world ranking is. Pressure is normal in my environment, but it does not come from any particular person.
"It would be better for me to focus on myself and what I can do."
