When young Italian rider Marco Simoncelli rag-dolled across the asphalt at the Sepang circuit, and his body shattered like his multimillion-dollar motorcycle, not a single soul could truly say they hadn't seen it coming.
This was the fast and perilous world of motorcycle racing, whereby one small mistake could send you careening headlong into your grave.
With this merry thought swimming in my fear-addled brain, I sign up for my first Pillion Ride programme with former Malaysian Grand Prix great Shahrol Yuzy Ahmad Zaini. Never mind the fact I've been on a motorcycle only once before - when I was three, my uncle took me on a 10-minute joyride on his weather-beaten but ever-reliable kapchai.
The invitation to take a lap or two behind a seasoned pro is something you do not pass up, no matter how frightened you are. With 20 years of professional riding experience under his belt, Yuzy (as he is fondly known among friends and fans) has been involved in the sport since he was discovered in 1993, at 17, during a routine test run for the Petronas Team.
"Those days, I loved the sport so much I set up my own private team on the race track just for fun," he says. "Then I got a call from Petronas asking me to test one of their bikes. I obliged and, much to everyone's surprise, I rode it much faster than their own riders did."
Yuzy eventually became the first ever-local racer to represent Malaysia in the highly competitive FIM World Motorcycle Grand Prix Championship (MotoGP) and went on to score his first gold in the Asia Road Racing Championships in 1996.
His retirement in 2002 left a gaping void in the Malaysian motorcycle racing industry that has yet to be filled.
Now 36 years young and the owner of Team Pachie Yuzy Honda Racing, Yuzy recounts his glory days with an eye-crinkling grin. In person, he is boyish-looking, solidly built and yet diminutive, possessing the perfect stature for a sport that favours the petite.
Speaking with him, I get a sense of comfort and relief in knowing that I cannot be in more capable hands. Until he shows me his scar, that is.
Turning around and lifting up his Team Pachie T-shirt, Yuzy points to the long gash that runs along the entire length of his spine, the result of a racing accident in 1998 that almost left him paralysed. It was a fractured backbone, and he had to spend one month in the hospital to recuperate.
"On hindsight, I'm glad it did happen," he says. "It made me change for the better. I became a more mature rider and human being."
It was also a chilling reminder that safety in this sport is never 100% guaranteed.
Crash course racing is a conscious process for Yuzy, rather than something he does intuitively. He is emphatic: "People think bravery is the most important ingredient in racing, but I beg to differ. It comes last. Having a good head on your shoulders is number one. Anything can happen in a split second, and you have to know what to do."
In other words, brains before balls.
But with bikers racing so closely together at high speed, crashing is inevitable; it's rather a matter of when. Safety levels have nevertheless improved tremendously over the past few decades, and riders suffering spinal injuries or fatalities are a rarity, according to David Emmett in his op-ed for online fanzine Moto Matters.
He wrote: "There have been some 13 deaths on closed circuits over the past 20 years at national and international level. Compare this with eventing (a one-day equestrian event), where approximately 37 fatalities were recorded at national and international level during the 10-year period between 1997 and 2008; in the same period, just nine motorcycle racers died."
So what went wrong in the Simoncelli tragedy?
Yuzy, who was in the paddock the day it occurred, gives his opinion.
"I think many factors contributed to the crash but one of the main reasons was that his front tyre lost grip during turn 11, putting him into a slide. Still, I feel that it shouldn't have happened. The fact that it did came as a shock to all of us," he says.
In the event of an accident or, God forbid, death, the Indemnity Declaration that I have hastily signed a few minutes earlier will protect Petronas against any liability, loss, or damage. The fact that the form also contains another column for blood type does not do anything to soothe my nerves.
Soon I'm whisked to the mobile clinic for a quick blood pressure check-up. Unfortunately, the doctor on duty finds that I'm in tip-top condition. This means only one thing: There's no escaping now.
I meekly accept my fate as they hand me my uniform: A red spandex jumpsuit for the inside, and a leather ensemble in green, the team colour of Petronas, for the outside. Weighing nearly 8kg (or 11kg with helmet, boots and gloves) and padded at all the right places to minimise any possible injury, the outer suit is an armour of sorts.
Shimmying into it is a feat in itself, because the outer suit's hardy exterior means I need the dexterity of a cat and the strength of at least three men (thankfully, there are three assistants around to help me with it). After 15 painful minutes of gasping and tugging, we finally, finally, manage to heave the outer suit on and - with me sucking my breath in - zip it up.
Cue applause.
To my surprise, the suit fits like a glove. Who cares that it feels like a 1,000&deg;C in here? I look great, proud and, heck, even professional.
My ego, however, deflates the instant I attempt to walk. The suit feels so awkward and heavy that my walk turns into a waddle. And because the suit is designed to imitate a rider's position when he is bent over his bike, I can hardly stand straight. My dubiousness grows together with my newfound respect for the racers.
Doing back and leg stretches right beside me is the calm and collected Yuzy, who looks utterly in his element. Nothing, not even a damn 100-pound sauna suit, can yank him out of his zone.
"Please go slow," I beg at the last minute, despite being pretty sure that my pleas will fall on deaf ears with this natural-born racer. It is time to go. I stroll (no, waddle) out into the bright mid-day and cheering crowds, feeling every bit like Evil Knieval marching to his doom.
Need for speed
Gleaming under the sun is our ride, a modified two-seater Yamaha R6 race bike, looking small and fierce with its sleek aluminium fixtures and wily 600cc engines that have enough raw power to blow even the most seasoned adrenaline junkie away. Every speed junkie's wet dream, this baby can go from zero to 390kph in just a few seconds.
Compare this to your average motorcycle, which levels out at about 120kph, or the world's fastest car, the Barabus TKR, which can reach top speeds of 435kph, and you know you've got one seriously mean machine.
I clamber onto the seat behind Yuzy, drawing envious stares from the crowd.
He has a few cautionary words: It's perfectly normal for the bike to go on a lean of 25&deg; to 30&deg; through a corner or bend. When this happens, try and stay as neutral as possible when leaning into corners, mimicking the driver's position. Under no circumstances should I react by leaning in the opposite direction because this could cause a crash.
"And whatever you do, don't let go of the handlebars," he says.
While I'm not about to disregard the latter warning anytime soon, the whole "leaning into corners" talk has me worrying. What if the sliding bike cannot support both our weights? What if my body instinctively tries to upright itself? What if my knee touches the ground and the ensuing friction burns a hole in my legs?
There's no time to worry because Yuzy signals that he's ready.
After revving the motorcycle for a bit of drama (you know, yung, YUNG, YUNGGG), we accelerate from the straight track at a spine-tingling speed. Suddenly, the bike jerks and it occurs to me that he's doing a wheelie. As this entire ride is being filmed, all I can imagine is the number of YouTube hits the video will receive if my arms were to give way.
But at least I'll be famous. The bike soon hits maximum velocity. Clutching the handlebars for dear life, I feel my heartbeat reaching a crescendo of terror. Sweat floods out from every pore of my being. My head feels as if it's about to be ripped from my body by a gale force winds. I scream, but stop when I realise that not a single soul can hear me through the helmet.
As soon as I'm over the whiplash, Yuzy throws the bike into a sharp corner. I do what he says, moving in cohesion with him. We tackle a few more bends like this.
Sepang, I'm told earlier, is a new-generation circuit. The southern track, where we're now at, is 2.61km in length and has more curves than a strip joint. There's only one straight portion to the circuit, and it's where our ride will start and where it will also finish. It's also the only portion where Yuzy can ride full throttle, without risking a clobbering from me.
By the second lap, I'm calm enough to enjoy the ride. Still, no amount of adrenaline can get me used to the speed at which we're travelling. We're practically flying. After a few petrifying minutes, we screech to a halt and life resumes a state of normalcy.
"Are you okay?" Yuzy turns around and asks me with a look of concern on his face. I've never felt better, and I convey this to him.
He beams. For someone who idolises double world champion and utter tosser Max Biaggi, Yuzy certainly is a complete opposite in terms of attitude. He has a heart of gold, and is pretty darn wise, too.
Waving goodbye, he fires a final advice for Mat Rempits: "If you want to be a hero, do it on the right track. The circuit."
