SINGAPORE - "It is not stated in the Singapore Bodybuilding and Fitness Federation (SBBF) constitution that I had to declare my bankruptcy status."
With that statement, beleagured Rano Izhar defended his position as SBBF president.
He was replying to a Straits Times (ST) article last Thursday which stated that Rano was an undischarged bankrupt, raising fears about his position as the SBBF chief since last June.
The 49-year-old said: "I've been having sleepless nights thinking about the SBBF.
"I have many things to worry about, so why would I want to also take on the problems of the federation, if not for passion?"
His bankruptcy status came to light after an anonymous e-mail was sent to certain sections of the sporting fraternity last Tuesday.
The ST article also quoted SBBF honorary life president Paul Chua as saying that Rano had not informed officials of this status before his election, which would have rendered him ineligible for the post.
"I have nothing to hide," replied Rano, who has kept silent about the issue until now.
Speaking to The New Paper, he added that he offered his resignation to the SBBF executive committee on Friday, but reiterated: "It is not stated in the SBBF constitution that I had to declare my bankruptcy status.
"When I was asked to assume the position of president, I was not given a declaration form by the technical committee or anyone else.
"I would not have concealed any details; if they had asked. The focal point at the time was to salvage a struggling federation and the sport."
The SBBF was trying to stay alive, after the Singapore Sports Council did not provide it any funding.
SBBF's 2005 constitution - the latest version to date - has no article or section which prohibits bankrupts from holding office.
SBBF honorary general secretary Shawn Sugendran confirmed that the constitution does not restrict Rano from continuing as president, contrary to what Chua has said.
But he added that Rano cannot continue as SBBF chief in the long run.
Said Sugendran: "Firstly, Paul is not an official spokesman for SBBF. So I don't know in what capacity he was speaking.
"Secondly, there is nothing in place that says Rano should have declared his bankruptcy status in the first place.
"But we do acknowledge that Rano's status is not good for the sport, which is why he has volunteered to step down.
"We have asked him to continue until the National Championships on July 1 because, at the moment, he's the best person to ensure that the event is run successfully.
"In the long-term, however, as we intend to be registered as a charity, Rano won't be able to continue as president. He will leave his post immediately after the event."
Chua could not be contacted for comment yesterday.
About his bankruptcy status, Rano disclosed that he had owed around $150,000 to OCBC Bank - adding that, at the time, he was also burdened with debt incurred by a friend.
He said: "In 2003, I co-signed an apartment and a car for a friend of mine from Indonesia, who came here to live for a while.
"He and his wife suddenly disappeared one day, leaving me to settle the car loan. That was how the OCBC debt came about.
"At the time, the Sars outbreak had seriously affected my gym business. I had to shut down my LA Fitness gym that same year."
As a volunteer, he does not get paid as SBBF president.
When Rano took over the reins, he vowed to restore bodybuilding to its heyday of the '70s and '80s.
Last November, he organised the WBPF World Men's Pro-Am Bodybuilding Classic Championships at the St James Power Station.
Currently, he is busy organising July's National Championships at the Kallang Theatre, which has cost around $15,000 to stage.
All this, according to Rano, was and will be done with limited funding.
In March, the SBBF was excluded from the list of 48 Singapore Sports Council (SSC)-funded national sports associations, after receiving between $100,000 and $200,000 in direct and indirect grants the year before.
Said Rano: "When I took over, the SBBF had a deficit of $104,000. We couldn't get SSC funding this year because our statement of accounts hadn't been submitted.
"It has now, but we're still in the process of completing the compliance audited report, which should help us to get our grant from SSC."
He said that the person who disseminated the anonymous e-mail, detailing his bankruptcy, is likely to be an athlete who disagrees with his ideas and direction for SBBF.
"I'm also saddened by Paul's quotes in the newspapers. One-and-a-half months ago, I tendered my resignation because of my personal commitments, but Paul asked me to reconsider.
"He said if I leave, SBBF will collapse. So, I stayed. Now, he's saying things about kicking me out if I don't step down."
