Arm bar - A submission move where the arm of the opponent is hyperextended. The fighter locks his opponent's arm between his legs, then while holding onto the arm, leans back, which puts unbearable pressure on the opponent's elbow.
Rear naked choke - One of the most effective submission moves, this choke hold is executed with the fighter on his back and his opponent facing away from him. The fighter locks one arm around the opponent's neck, with the neck "pinched" between his bicep and his forearm.
The other arm is used to push against the back of the opponent's head while the legs are locked around the opponent. What is pinched are the carotid arteries that supply blood and oxygen to the brain, so the opponent has to tap out before he passes out.
Guillotine - This scarily named move is usually adopted when an opponent charges forward with head lowered. Versatile enough to be used in both standing and guard positions, it is basically a headlock with the fighter's arm under the charging opponent's chin and against the throat. The fighter's other hand grabs his wrist and pulls upwards.
Knee bar - This submission move is used after the fighter breaks out of an opponent's guard. The fighter while on top, turns his back on the opponent, wraps his arms and legs around the opponent's leg, then falls backward. This hyperextends the opponent's knee.
Ground and pound - Normally employed by fighters with limited skills in submission moves, this involves getting the opponent on the ground and then striking him continuously, usually ending in a knockout.
Guard - A semi-defensive position where the fighter is on his back with his opponent between his legs.
Mount - Quite simply, a control position with the fighter on top of his opponent.
Muay thai clinch - Usually used by a muay thai boxer. Here, the fighter grabs his opponent's head and applies knee strikes.
Kimura - Named after judo master Masa-hiko Kimura, this is an arm-lock where the opponent's arm is bent behind him, which hyper-rotates the shoulder and leads to a submission. The arm could be broken or shoulder dislocated if the opponent does not tap out.
Omoplata - A very difficult move to execute, this is a Kimura arm-lock with the fighter putting his leg over the opponent's shoulder and under his chin. Pushing against the chin, the fighter then leans forward.
