The "Big Brother" of Singapore football will be back, but not immediately, and not for long. In an exclusive interview with The New Paper, Persib Bandung striker Noh Alam Shah said he has agreed to sign a short-term deal with former club Tampines Rovers until the end of the season.
But the 31-year-old said: "Beyond that, I feel my future is still in Indonesia.
"I feel really appreciated here. Four Indo clubs already made me offers for the next season, which starts next January."
The move to Singapore still hinges on whether Tampines can secure his medical documents and International Transfer Certificate from the Indonesia FA before the transfer window closes today, although the Stags are optimistic.
If there are no surprises, Alam Shah will return to Singapore after July 11, after Persib play their final Indonesia Super League (ISL) match against champions Sriwijaya.
Said the striker: "Tampines have always been very close to my heart and I'm thankful to 'Boss' (Tampines chairman Teo Hock Seng).
"It will be great if we can win another title together.
"But I feel it is only right for me to finish the last three games with Persib because they have been very good to me.
"Then I have to go back to Malang for my personal belongings. I should be a back a few days after July 11."
This means Singapore fans will probably catch their first glimpse of the powerful forward on July 17, when Tampines visit Woodlands Wellington.
He will probably line-up alongside another new striker, Serb Sead Hadzibulic, with ageless stalwart Aleksandar Duric also in the mix.
Potentially, it is a fearsome combination, and Tampines coach Steven Tan quipped: "If we want to defend our title, more power better than no power."
In an eventful seven years with Tampines from 2003 to 2009, Alam Shah thrilled fans by thumping in more than 100 goals to help the eastern giants win two S-League titles and two Singapore Cups.
However, he also embroiled in a few controversial incidents because of his volatile temperament.
One of the gravest was his shocking attack on national teammate Daniel Bennett in the 2007 Singapore Cup final against SAFFC, who won 4-3.
Alam Shah, known for his straight-talking nature, had criticised the Beep Test before he left the S-League in 2009 to captain Arema Malang to ISL glory.
The mere mention of the compulsory fitness test yesterday - he has to pass it to be able to play for Tampines - was enough to make him bristle.
He said: "I still hold the same views.
"I will have to pass the Beep Test to play in the S-League again.
"If I can't pass, I can go back to Indonesia. But the sad thing is, I see so many good footballers who can't play because they fail this Beep Test."
The timing of his return coincides with this year's Suzuki Cup, which will be co-hosted by Malaysia and Thailand from Nov 14 to Dec 8.
Three-rime champions Singapore have targeted a place in the final and could do with a proven striker.
The former national skipper, who has 35 goals in 80 internationals, is the all-time top scorer in the regional competition with 17 goals.
Said Alam Shah: "Of course every player wants to play for his national team, but I will be 32 by then.
"If they call me up, it shows they have a lack of young strikers who can fill the gap.
"I've already thought of retiring from international football, but if I get a call-up, I will accept and share my experience with the younger players."
