LONDON - Alex Ferguson has defended winger Ashley Young from accusations of cheating after Manchester United closed in on their 20th English top-tier league title with a 4-0 victory over Aston Villa. The first goal came from the penalty spot after Young won a hotly disputed sixth-minute spot kick after going down under contact from Ciaran Clark.
While television replays showed there was some contact, pundits quickly pointed to the fact that Young seemed to "go looking" for the collision and fell down theatrically to convince referee Mark Halsey.
The decision followed Young winning an equally contentious decision in United's previous home game against Queens Park Rangers and will see the behaviour of the former Villa winger come under close scrutiny.
Ferguson conceded that Young "played" for the penalty and fears his man may be gaining an unwanted reputation, but insisted that it was a legitimate penalty call.
"If the player decides to put his foot in and doesn't straighten his own feet and read the situation, then he's fallen into that," he said.
"He's there for the taking. I think it was a dramatic fall, I think maybe he overdid the fall. But it was a penalty, there was no doubt about that."
Given the instant and angry reaction to the penalty incident, Ferguson, however, does concede that there is a danger of Young becoming known as a "diver".
"Yes. I think in that situation, the last week or two, yes," he said. "I've never seen that in him, it's not a habitual thing in him. He was brought down, he just made the most of it."
United's victory was the perfect response to Manchester City's emphatic 6-1 victory at Norwich a day earlier, as well as United's surprise 0-1 loss at Wigan last week. It also restored a five-point lead for the Red Devils at the top of the Barclays Premier League table.
Intriguingly, the Manchester derby at City's Etihad Stadium at the end of the month is now looking a possible, if not likely, place for United to clinch the title, although Ferguson is taking nothing for granted.
"There could be twists and turns yet but the name of the game is to enjoy ourselves, play with the expression we did in this game and, hopefully, we will be all right," he said.
"You can never be too confident. My experience tells me there is always something that is going to bite you on the bum. Hopefully, we can avoid that, the name of the game is not dropping any more points.
"It's one game less. That is what I take out of the game."
