Future winners of the Crocodile Challenge Cup can look forward to more rewards in addition to cash prizes.
According to Singapore Table Tennis Association (STTA) president Lee Bee Wah, the champions of future tournaments could be given opportunities to compete overseas.
Speaking at the finals of the tournament at Velocity on Sunday, Lee said: "We are exploring the possibility of sending the winners of the Primary 3 to 6 categories overseas. Their travel expenses would be fully covered."
A total of 252 paddlers from 41 different schools took part in this year's event, which is into its second edition.
Unlike other local competitions, certain regulations are put in place for this Under-12 tournament.
For instance, each school is allowed to send a maximum of two players per event (U-8, U-10 and U-12 singles), and only Singaporeans are allowed to compete.
Said Lee: "Our aim is to cast our net as wide as possible. We want to use this tournament to identify young talent.
"We limit the number of players each school can send so that players from all schools can enjoy equal opportunities.
"Some schools which are unable to participate at the inter-school level can still participate in the Crocodile Challenge Cup.
"We want to make sure that players from these schools are not left out.
Goal
"Our goal is to attract players from more schools in future events."
When asked about Singapore's disappointing performance at the China Open last week, Lee declined comment.
During yesterday's closing ceremony, Lee and Guest-of-Honour Mr Chan Chun Sing, Acting Minister for Community Development, Youth and Sports, took part in a sparring session with Nanyang Primary School's Chia Jun Yuen and Ai Tong School's Sean Ang - finalists of the Primary 3 and 4 Boys' singles event.
WINNERS
Primary 1 &amp; 2 Girls
Cheryl Koh (Ai Tong)
Primary 1 &amp; 2 Boys
Pan Hai Hao (Nanyang)
Primary 3 &amp; 4 Girls
Idys Koh (Nanyang)
Primary 3 &amp; 4 Boys
Chia Jun Yuen (Nanyang)
Primary 5 &amp; 6 Girls
Zermaine Low (Nanyang)
Primary 5 &amp; 6 Boys
Chia Shing Kee (Maris Stella)
