The Premier League's Footballer of the Year is sitting behind a table at the Courts store in Orchard.
But he's no preening, hard-to-please prima donna.
Instead, Manchester City and Belgium captain Vincent Kompany tirelessly autographs fans' memorabilia, one by one - about 120 of them in all.
He scrawls his John Hancock gamely on photographs, flags, and jerseys - either laid in front of him or on fans' backs - while saying little and flashing only a modest smile as he poses for photos. Indeed, the 26-year-old isn't your average Premier League superstar.
Low-key and reserved, that's Kompany.
When a group of City fans from the club's official fan group start singing his name, he blushes and seems even slightly embarrassed, even though he should be used to his name ringing around the 50,000-seater City of Manchester Stadium by now.
And when it is time to face the press pack, he doesn't just spout the cliched answers pro footballers nowadays seem more than happy to churn out.
Pausing thoughtfully each time, Kompany delivers answers deliberately and to the point.
Can Belgium star and new Chelsea signing Eden Hazard adapt into the Premier League?
"I know his ability... and for him to blend into the Premier League, or any other league for that matter, is a straight-forward thing," the 1.93m-tall man-mountain replies.
What do you think of City and Italy striker Mario Balotelli's vow to walk out of a game at Euro 2012 if racially abused?
"We should accept that every player will have his own way to respond," says Kompany.
"My opinion on this is very clear. If a player feels like he needs to stop the game... it's his decision and it should be respected by everybody."
Kompany smiles and admits he supports England because of his English wife, Carla Higgs, but adds: "Spain have got the strongest team, followed by Holland and Germany."
Earlier this year, the classy defender tweeted his opinions on the French presidential elections, and also signed up for a business management course to further his studies.
While he rules out a future career in politics, Kompany reveals his education plans are a way to "relax" and keep in touch with the "normal Vincent".
Definitely not your typical Premier League footballer.
"People say it could be extra pressure, but for me, it's just a way to relax," he says.
"You're busy all the time with football, and sometimes you can lose sight of things. Sometimes you think you're the centre of the world, which is always never true.
"So those kinds of moments give me the opportunity to go back to normal Vincent, and have my own private life, private issues to deal with."
The only time Kompany really laughs during the interview is when this reporter mentions "The Hart Fart" (look it up on YouTube).
When asked whether he was really angry when he shot England goalkeeper Joe Hart with a death-stare, Kompany says: "No, I was just thinking it was inappropriate at that time... and I let him know later on!
"I look at the video now and it's still so funny. We have a lot of strong characters at City, but all of them are just great people.
"Those stealing the show for me are Joe Hart and Nigel de Jong. They can make me laugh in the morning even if I'm in a bad mood."
So believe it when Kompany declares he never wants to leave the club from the blue half of Manchester.
In fact, he wants to make sure he's a part of their continued success - even 10 years down the road. "I'm really happy there," declares Kompany.
"Sometimes you have to recognise that. The way I see this club is that it's an ever-improving club, and this club has no limit.
"You've seen what we achieved in four years? I can guarantee you that in 10 years' time we'll be the biggest club in the world.
"I hope to be a part of it and I'll do my best for it to happen."
