Hours before Sunday's nerve-racking final 90 minutes of this extraordinary Barclays Premier League (BPL) season, I posted a link on my Facebook page to a documentary clip of one of the most astonishing relegation escapes of all time, just for my friends' amusement.
It was from 1999, when little Carlisle United were fighting for survival in English professional football.
They desperately needed a goal in the dying moments of their League Two match, or they would fall into the abyss of non-league football.
And they got it in the 94th minute, scored by - of all players - goalkeeper Jimmy Glass, who had raced up the field to join their final attack.
Bedlam ensued. Delirious fans swarmed onto the field in utter joy, hugging everyone in the vicinity and carrying Glass above their heads off the field in celebration.
For Glass, read Sergio Aguero after Sunday.
And for Carlisle United, read Manchester City after Sunday's stunning turnaround in the final five minutes of their BPL season, which transformed the club from being the serial laughing stock to first-time BPL champions.
Aguero's nerveless 94th- minute strike, which gave them a 3-2 win over Queens Park Rangers after trailing 1-2 - amid such gut-wrenching emotions at the Etihad Stadium that even City manager Roberto Mancini was in danger of completely losing theplot - inspired pandemonium and delirium amid long-suffering City fans.
For neutral football fans, Sunday was a re-affirmation of the sport's unique ability to supply intense drama and thrilling twists.
City have reached the BPL summit at last, after almost &pound;800 million (S$1.6 billion) of investment from their cash-rich Abu Dhabi owners in the last two seasons.
Yes, those riches gave them the ability to assemble a formidable team boasting the likes of Aguero, Carlos Tevez, Yaya Toure, David Silva and Vincent Kompany.
But they still needed old- fashioned self-belief and team spirit to engineer this momentous victory.
No one will begrudge them their first top-tier English league title in 44 years, not after they fought tooth and nail with Manchester United and refused to crack, despite being under pressure from the Red Devils for much of the season.
Amid the sea of joy at the Etihad, Mancini insisted that true success for the club would come only if they could build upon this initial success and continue winning, much like their fierce rivals across the city.
Can they? With their financial muscle, few would rule out a few more trophies for City.
However, one major roadblock stands in their path to perennial dominance - and that is the Financial Fair Play regulations by Uefa, Europe's football-governing body.
Introduced amid concerns over heavy spending by cash-rich clubs like Man City and Chelsea, the regulations enable sanctions to be taken against clubs which do not spend within a set budgetary framework over several seasons.
The ultimate penalty is disqualification from European competitions. Other possible penalties include fines, the withholding of prize money or transfer bans.
So City cannot continue to spend lavishly and not feel the pinch as their rich owners easily absorb the annual losses.
That means they cannot continue to stockpile talents and pay them sky-high wages as before.
With the more level playing field, coupled with the rise of more contenders in the league, such as Tottenham and even Newcastle, Man City will find it difficult to maintain their dominance and win successive trophies, as Man United have in the past two decades.
Still, who's complaining, really?
Not after a season filled with dramatic twists and turns, not after top-level football played weekly for the past nine months, and certainly not after Sunday's totally crazy ending.
No, every fan would hope that every BPL season would be as exhilarating as this just-concluded one.
So, congratulations City, but sorry, you are not getting a free pass to dominate.
