The football delivered on the pitch during last friday's match between Singapore and Malaysia at the Jalan Besar Stadium was cracking.
Qiu Li's injury-time goal capped a dramatic comeback for Singapore, who rallied from two goals down to draw with their arch-rivals 2-2.
The match was the first of a two-legged friendly dubbed the Causeway Challenge.
But it seemed the fiery nature of the fixture got to the heads of both sets of fans even before the kick-off.
During Singapore's national anthem, played before the start of the game, the section of about 400 Malaysian fans draped their arms over each others' shoulders and turned around to show their backs.
And outside the stadium, even before the game got underway, Singapore and Malaysia fans clashed in what one witness called a "street fight" outside the stadium.
A Singaporean was later arrested for disorderly behaviour.
Punches were thrown, security officers were barged aside, and Singapore fans were allegedly chased along Horne Road outside Jalan Besar Stadium, about two hours before the 7.45pm kick-off.
One Singapore fan in his 30s, who claimed to see the whole incident but declined to be named, told The New Paper: "A Singapore fan from one of the fan-groups started shouting vulgarities at the Malaysian Ultras, and that sparked off the brawl.
"The worst part is that he ran off after he was chased by the Ultras, and there were some women and children among the Singapore fans.
"After that, some other male fans got attacked too. The brawl took place right in the middle of the road... It was like a street fight."
The die-hard Malaysian fans, known as the "Ultra Malaya", and a group of Singapore fans, were then separated by Cisco officers and volunteer security personnel.
But the Malaysia fans kept charging towards the Singapore fans and these intermittent attacks went on for about 20 minutes, after which the 150 or so fans were finally dispersed.
One of the security personnel on duty is understood to have received a minor head injury as a result of the clash.
Last friday's incident was a repeat of unsavoury scenes last July, when Malaysian and Singaporean fans got involved in a shoving match - also along Horne Road - after the two countries' second round World Cup qualifier.
Singapore won that match 5-3.
The local fan who saw last night's clash said he witnessed last July's clash too.
"This clash was much fiercer than last year's incident," he said.
"Luckily, there were Cisco officers this time around. If not, I don't know what might have happened."
He said: "We came here only to watch a football match. But one Singapore fan started taunting us, shouting vulgarities at us and showing us the middle finger.
"So some of the Ultras, maybe about 50 of them, got angry and chased after him. I wasn't involved, but some of the other Ultra fans were quite angry."
There was no second round of clashes after the match as security personnel kept Malaysian fans in the stadium for about an hour after the game ended, long after all the Singapore fans had dispersed. Even then, no risks were taken as the Malaysians were released in groups of about 20 every five minutes.
Jebat said that he was disappointed with the incident that took place before last night's game.
He said: "I've been with the Ultra Malaya to countries like Indonesia for matches, and even though we have a strong rivalry on the pitch, we have a good relationship with the Indonesian Ultras.
"But those Singapore fans who provoked us, kept taunting us and then running away - they were like little kids."
A police spokesman confirmed that they received a call at about 5.30pm, and that an arrest was made.
The spokesman said: "A Singaporean in his early 20s was arrested for disorderly behaviour outside Jalan Besar Stadium.
"Police investigations are ongoing."
TNP understands that a fan was ejected from his seat in the stadium's gallery by Football Association of Singapore (FAS) officials following the incident, but it is not known whether he was the one arrested.
While some have pointed to Singapore fans starting the trouble, another local fan gave a different picture.
He said: "The Ultra Malaya have several different groups among themselves. The Ultras from Kedah, Johor and Selangor are friendly, but some other groups are known for getting into trouble," claimed the fan, who declined to be named.
An FAS spokesman reiterated its "zero-tolerance policy on violence" and vowed to take unruly individuals to task.
He added: "The FAS would like to reiterate that the safety and security of fans is of paramount importance.
"The FAS would also like to re-emphasize that any fan who uses abusive language, incites violence, or abuses physically or verbally any fan or official will be referred to the relevant authorities.
"The FAS would like a conducive environment where families can come and support the national team, in the best spirit of the game.
"Let's support the team without any form of violence or discrimination, and uphold the integrity of the sport."
