MADRID - Spanish football may be enjoying one of its most successful eras, powered by Barcelona and Real Madrid's charge through the Champions League and the national team's World Cup triumph.
However, the glittering success on the pitch hides a darker story, with a survey of the accounts of the country's top football clubs revealing a tale of crippling debts and tax arrears.
Both Real and Barca are through to the elite Champions League semi-finals, with Real sitting four points clear of their archrivals in the Spanish Primera Liga following a 4-1 win over Atletico Madrid on Wednesday.
The two globally renowned clubs also rival each other in the depth of their debts - Real have accumulated 589 million euros (S$973 million) to Barcelona's 578 million euros.
The debts eclipse their revenues, which for the 2010/2011 season amounted to 479 million euros for Real Madrid and 450 million euros for Barcelona.
Europa League semi-finalists Valencia and Atletico are also awash with red ink, to the tune of 382 million and 514 million euros, respectively.
But the latest figure to hit the headlines in Spain is the 752 million euros that the elite clubs owe to the taxman, at a time when more than five million Spaniards are unemployed and the government is asking citizens for more sacrifices.
The Sports Ministry announced a plan to ensure that football pays its own debts but, for the moment, it is unclear how it will do so.
Six of the 20 Spanish Primera Liga clubs - Rayo Vallecano, Racing Santander, Real Betis, Zaragoza, Granada and Mallorca - are in the midst of bankruptcy proceedings, as are six second-division teams.
Barcelona University professor of economics Jose Maria Gay de Liebana compared Spanish football's total debts, which he estimated at 3.5 billion euros, to the frenzy of the country's property-market bubble, which imploded in 2008.
"Football is a mirror of the general economy in Spain. For years, we have been spending beyond our means, getting deeper and deeper into debt," he said.
"It's the same for football. For years, clubs have made colossal and inefficient investments. And as they did not have their own funds to finance these expenses, they went massively into debt."
A good example of the race to invest, no matter the cost, is Valencia's "New Mestalla" stadium.
In 2007, amid the property boom, Valencia decided to buy themselves a new 70,000-seat stadium - even though they have only 39,000 members.
The 300-million-euro construction cost was supposed to be financed by the sale of land from their old stadium for some 400 million euros.
Two years later, engulfed by the property-market crisis, construction stopped when the club realised they could not find buyers for the old stadium property.
One other factor may have contributed to the accumulation of debts: a lack of financial control by Spanish institutions.
Some blame a lax attitude by the Spanish football league, others the league's inability to impose tough sporting sanctions.
Until recently, the Spanish professional football league did not have the power to relegate a club in bankruptcy.
Some teams even used the bankruptcy law to their advantage, enjoying legal protection from their creditors while continuing to play football at the highest level.
"The new law that came into force in January, which now authorises the authorities to relegate a club in bankruptcy, will change things a lot," said sports lawyer Juan de Dios Crespo.
It is unclear, however, if the authorities would risk the public backlash of taking on a football club.
In the 1990s, when the footballing authorities threatened to relegate Celta Vigo and Sevilla because of problems with their registration paperwork, they were forced to backpedal under huge pressure from fans.
