HOLLYWOOD - A recharged Manny Pacquiao showed his readiness to go full blast in training by assaulting Griffith Park up to the famed Hollywood sign on Monday and posting a personal best time in the process.
Pacquiao, who is preparing for his defense of the WBO welterweight crown against unbeaten American and junior welterweight counterpart Timothy Bradley, completed the 5.6-km course in 22 minutes, slashing a minute off his previous best as he reaped the benefits of his recent high altitude training in Baguio City.
As narrated in a Philboxing report, Pacquiao went to the Wild Card Gym in Hollywood in the afternoon and spent three hours with chief trainer Freddie Roach and other members of the coaching staff.
Pacquiao did 10 rounds on the mitts with Roach, followed by two hours of conditioning and hitting the bags under the supervision of Filipino trainers Buboy Fernandez and Nonoy Neri.
As he promised, conditioning trainer Alex Ariza returned to the Team Pacquiao fold and did his usual exercises with the eight-division world champion, who'll tangle with Bradley on June 9 at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas.
Ariza left at the early part of Pacquiao's training in Manila to be with Julio Cesar Chavez Jr., who will dangle his WBC middleweight crown against Andy Lee on June 6 in El Paso, Texas.
Also present during Pacquiao's first day of training at Wild Card was Top Rank chief Bob Arum.
In a Philboxing report, Pacquiao said he's glad to be back at Wild Card and retirement is far from his mind.
"I have no plans to retire," said Pacquiao.
"I still love what I'm doing."
According to Roach, their three-week training in the Philippines provided a "good base to build on" for the hard work and strategy that lie ahead.
"Manny went a strong 10 rounds with me today on the mitts. He'll sleep good tonight."
Activity kills Floyd Jr.
Though he did not see Floyd Mayweather beat Miguel Cotto by unanimous decision Saturday night, Roach insisted that Pacquiao is going to hand the flamboyant American his first loss if ever their dream megabuck showdown pushes through.
Roach said "the way to beat Floyd is to outwork him every minute of every round" and that Manny is the only fighter capable of executing that game plan.
"Activity kills Mayweather," Roach concluded.
