Long after Chelsea's 2-1 victory over Liverpool in the FA Cup final, many are still wondering if the Reds were denied a chance to take the match to extra time.
The major talking point came about in the 82nd minute when Liverpool, trailing the Blues by a goal, thought they had equalised through substitute Andy Carroll.
Carroll had directed a powerful close-range header off a Luis Suarez cross, only for goalkeeper Petr Cech to claw the ball onto the cross bar and back into play.
Neither the referee Phil Dowd nor his assistant Andrew Garratt was moved by Liverpool's protests. The New Paper's refereeing analyst and former Fifa referee Francis Lee believes the officials made the right decision.
He said: "For it to be a goal, the whole of the ball must cross the line, whether it's in the air or on the ground.
"From the replays, we could see that about a quarter of the ball was still on the line. "The onus was on the assistant referee to make the call, since he was in a better position than the referee.
"He didn't indicate that it was a goal."
Football pundit and former Manchester United fullback Paul Parker is equally convinced that Liverpool were not robbed of a goal as some claimed.
While understanding that it could have been mistaken for one in real time, he feels that the replays on TV showed otherwise.
He said: "You could see from the reactions of the players, that the ball didn't go in.
"Don't take anything away from Cech, because he made a great save."
Chelsea fan Lawrence Lim agrees that Carroll's effort was stopped in the nick of time.
Said the operations manager of Singapore's Chelsea supporters' club: "I haven't seen a single photo of the incident that shows that the ball had crossed the goal line.
"Of course, it wasn't a goal."
For the Liverpool fans, defeat was a bitter pill to swallow following the team's spirited display in the late stages.
Even after seeing the replays many times on TV, Henry Han, vice-president of Singapore's Liverpool supporters' club, thought they were inconclusive.
But he accepted that controversy is part of the game.
He said: "I felt that the replays couldn't tell us for sure because the camera was capturing the footage from an angle, not straight on.
"It was a bit of deja vu, really. Some years back, Luis Garcia scored a goal against Chelsea in the Champions League under similar circumstances.
"I suppose it's just one of those things."
garylim@sph.com.sg
