SINGAPORE - Before yesterday, Naufal Nur Hakim was just a regular student footballer with Meridian Junior College (MJC).
But after a friendly match with Eastchester View, of the D2D social league, the 19-year-old student was offered an opportunity to take his game to the next level.
He will be joined by about 150 players, between the ages of 16 and 24, as part of Nike's annual worldwide talent development programme called The Chance.
This year's programme is led by LionsXII head coach V Sundramoorthy, who will be travelling around the island scouting for the brightest football talents.
He kicked off the search at MJC yesterday, and handed out invites to five players, including Naufal, to The Chance Boot Camp in Singapore, which will take place in May.
From there, Sundram and his scouting panel will pick five players to represent the Republic at the South-east Asia regional finals in Jakarta, Indonesia, in June.
And the top-four players in South-east Asia will travel to La Masia, Barcelona's famed youth academy, where they will experience world-class coaching from the Catalan giants.
Said Sundram: "This is a good opportunity to identify and groom young players who have the potential.
"I'm are looking for players who have the technique and ability, to develop them into future stars."
Sundram also said the programme could be beneficial to Singapore's football in the long run.
"This exposure that they will get when they represent Singapore will definitely help them," he said.
"And if they are good enough to join the LionsXII or the national team in the future, why not?"
Chance
For Naufal, this could be a chance for the former National Football Academy player to fulfil his footballing dream.
"It's my dream to become a professional footballer, and this could be my opportunity," he said.
"Actually I didn't even know that it would be a scouting match at first. I thought it was just another friendly."
But the attacking midfielder did enough to impress Sundram.
"Now that I'm selected, I want to go all the way," Naufal said.
This is the second edition of the sportswear giant's worldwide football talent search, following its inaugural edition in 2010.
