LONDON - Harry Redknapp has insisted he holds "no grudges" after appearing to lose out in the race for the vacant England manager's job to Roy Hodgson.
Ever since Fabio Capello resigned in February, in protest at the Football Association's decision to strip John Terry of the England captaincy, Tottenham Hotspur manager Redknapp has been the favourite of both fans and the British media to succeed the Italian.
However, the FA announced Sunday they had opened talks with the lower profile Hodgson, the manager of mid-table Premier League side West Bromwich Albion, and that he was the only man they'd spoken to about the vacancy.
But Redknapp, in charge of a Spurs side who are fourth in the Premier League and pushing for a Champions League place, insisted he had no qualms about the FA's approach to his fellow English manager.
"It's no problem," Redknapp told Sky Sports on Monday. "If Roy takes the job, I wish him all the best. He's a great guy.
"I've got a great job here. Every day I work with some fantastic players, we had a great result yesterday (Spurs beat Blackburn 2-0 on Sunday), played ever so well, so I have no problems whatsoever. I'm very lucky to be working at such a good club as Tottenham and I'm very fortunate."
Redknapp, asked if he felt hurt or let down, replied: "I don't hold grudges, I don't feel like that. I'm very fortunate, there are lots of people who would give anything to have the job I've got here.
"I'm just so lucky to be working here, working with fantastic players every day. For any manager, or anyone who loves football, to be doing what I'm doing at this particular club is just great. I don't hold regrets."
Many observers have criticised the FA for taking too long to bring in a permanent replacement for Capello and some had suggested the ongoing uncertainty surrounding Redknapp's future has even had an adverse effect on Tottenham's form - prior to Sunday's match they'd won just once in nine league games.
"I suppose it's dragged on," said Redknapp in the nearest he came to a criticism of the process. "It's no problem. I just get on with my job here and hopefully we'll have a good end of the season to come.
"We have had a good season so far and we've got three games left to get that Champions League spot now. That's all my focus has ever been on, nothing's changed with that."
There are now just six weeks until England play their opening match of Euro 2012 but Redknapp backed Hodgson, who unlike him has vast overseas experience, to do well in the job if appointed.
"I like Roy he's a top man, he's a good guy and I'm sure he will make a big success (of the job). I still think England has got great players, I really do.
"I just think there are some fantastic players in this country, some young players coming through and some great experienced players."
