WHITBREAD: They played very well. They had a slow start, but settled quickly. Once they got going, it was terrific the way they moved the ball around.
The Czechs weren't very good, of course, but you can't take credit away from Russia. For an opening game, to storm out the way they did, was very impressive.
Their star players were their front players - Andrei Arshavin, Alan Dzagoev and Alexander Kerzhakov. Kerzhakov missed a couple of chances, but he did his job. Those three players could possibly be one of the best attacking trios we'll see at Euro 2012.
It helps that the front three are playing ahead of a very settled Russian midfield. Roman Shirokov, Igor Denisov and Konstantin Zyryanov - all from Zenit St Petersburg - have been mainstays in the side throughout qualifying.
The understanding is there and they compliment each other's abilities. I don't see Russia changing their line-up too much this tournament, unless there are injuries.
I've said before that Russia shouldn't have too much trouble qualifying from their group. I do feel that they could be the dark horses of the tournament. Certainly on last night's showing, I haven't changed my opinion.
If they maintain this form, they will top the group. After that, however, they would likely meet Holland in the quarter-finals and that might be too difficult for them.
It's possible though; if Russia's attacking trio can play to the level they're capable of, they could surprise Holland, who aren't great at the back.
Well, he's been unhappy in London and at Arsenal. It's difficult at times with the very different culture, food and weather.
People forget that players in the Premier League play more than 38 matches - and there are no easy games.
Players like Arshavin have to show flair and at the same time, work hard week in, week out to please the fans. I think he found the intensity difficult to keep up with.
He showed he was a terrific player at first, but he just couldn't sustain it. And the reaction from the fans when he wasn't performing didn't help either.
He's gone back to Russia, settled down and he's starting to enjoy his football again. Now he's back to the same player he was four years ago.
Sure. He scored two goals last night, worked hard and showed lots of technical ability. He's very skilful and he knows where the goal is.
He's only 21, so he's got a lot of learning to do. But the potential is there. I'd be very surprised if, at the end of the tournament, he didn't move to one of the big clubs in Europe. He's the type of player who will blossom at one of the big clubs.
I'd be surprised if Russia coach Dick Advocaat changed things around for the next game. Kerzhakov has been in the line-up for so long. He didn't have the best of games against the Czechs in terms of scoring, and, to be honest, the substitution was inevitable. Pavlyuchenko came on, scored and created another goal. So there is a case to be argued.
But if Advocaat leaves Kerzhakov out after the first match, it could seriously damage his confidence. Will that help in the long run?
If it were me, I'd veer towards starting with Kerzhakov again. He needs the support at this point; to keep his confidence going. Plus, he's a proven goalscorer.
If he continues to underperform, then certainly Pavlyuchenko will have to come in.
They will find it very difficult now. They took a massive hammering from Russia.
Their defending was poor and their midfield simply couldn't keep up with Russia. They were over-reliant on Milan Baros, very predictable going forward and were never a threat to Russia's backline.
It's hard for them to progress now. They would need to win both their remaining games, I reckon. And it could come down to goal difference. If the Czechs had lost by one or two, I'd say they were still in with a shout.
Their confidence must have also taken a hit. The Czechs have a fairly new coach, who didn't get off to a good start when he took over. I'd imagine the newspapers in the Czech Republic having a field day against the coach and the players for the 4-1 defeat.
It's a mountain to climb for them. They will improve, maybe earn a point or two, but I don't see them bouncing back. It's a step too far for them now.
