Ranked fourth on the all-time English Premier League scorers' list (163 goals), has experience playing in South-east Asia and is currently a free agent.
Is there an S-League club who want to sign Robbie Fowler as a marquee player during this transfer window?
At the invitation of Courts, which represents Liverpool's football academy in Singapore, the former Reds striker was in town over the weekend.
While the 37-year-old cheekily dismissed the notion of playing for Courts Young Lions, an Under-23 outfit anyway, a source close to Fowler told The New Paper that he is keen to stay in Asia after his stint with Muangthong United in Thailand.
So on Sunday, in a meet-and-greet session with close to 200 fans in Singapore, The New Paper asked "God", as he is affectionately known to Kop fans: "Will you play in the S-League one day?"
Fowler dropped a hint when he replied: "Singapore is a great place and I've played and coached in Thailand. So maybe, we'll see."
This should be seen as an encouraging sign for local clubs to step in with an offer.
For someone who just wants to continue his playing career, wages may not be much of an issue.
After all, Fowler's net worth is &pound;31 million ($62m) as of May 2012, according to the Sunday Times Rich List.
Online reports suggest he earned around $700,000 from his one-year deal with Perth Glory in 2010, but Fowler should be available for much less now that he's in the twilight of his playing career.
In March, the scorer of the fastest hat-trick in Liverpool's history (4 min and 32 sec against Arsenal in 1994), looked set to sign for Blackpool, only to be turned off by an offer of just &pound;100 a week, topped up by &pound;5,000 for every first-team appearance.
Hougang United chairman Bill Ng, who was recently pipped to the post in a bid to take over Scottish giants Rangers, is open to the idea of approaching Fowler.
He told TNP: "The transfer window is open now and it's worth considering because he's such a well-known figure.
"I'm open to the idea but I will need to sit down with our technical team to discuss whether we need a new signing in mid-season. And even if we are keen, we will have to look at his wage demands."
Tampines Rovers chairman Teo Hock Seng was more forthright when he said: "I don't think we can afford him."
A local football official told TNP that with the average S-League attendance at an all-time low of 932, clubs should seriously look at bringing big-name veterans who are cult heroes.
He said: "Sometimes clubs have to decide whether they want to go for the title or bring in the fans. Maybe bringing in the fans should be the priority now.
"A player like Fowler still has the crowd-pulling factor and who is to say he cannot thrive in the S-League?"
After leaving England, Fowler notched nine goals each in 26 games and 28 games for North Queensland Fury and Perth Glory respectively.
At Muangthong United last year, he scored four in 20 games.
The prospect of watching Fowler playing in Singapore is an exciting one for fans. Tampines fan Bryan Chua said: "I think the attendance will surely improve whichever stadium he plays in.
"He would definitely have higher wage demands, but maybe the FAS can help to provide subsidies. There's only half a season left anyway, why not give it a shot?"
No big names have arrived this season, despite the S-League scrapping the monthly salary cap of $10,000 for marquee signings.
These players do not have to take the Beep Test, the fitness test which local players are subjected to.
Brazilian Renato Martins is possibly the last big name in the S-League - with Tampines in 2001.
Signed for $10,000 a month, he lasted just one match - scoring a penalty - before leaving for Gremio to replace Paris St Germain-bound Ronaldinho.
Other established players in the S-League include ex-Iran internationals Mohammad Khakpour and Hamidreza Estili (both with Geylang United in 1996) and former Cameroon international Emile Mbouh Mbouh (Tanjong Pagar United in 1997).
Norwich Hall of Famer Grant Holt played for Sengkang Marine in 2002, scoring 12 goals in 14 games, but he wasn't a household name then.
"Singapore is a great place and I've played and coached in Thailand. So maybe, we'll see."
