Professional baseball coaches who still cannot find positions in the crowded baseball league in Taiwan have been warmly embraced by pro baseball teams in mainland China.
The baseball veterans originated from Taiwan are able to win respect and new brilliant careers on the Chinese mainland mainly because of their rich training and management skills plus the advantages of much easier communications with Chinese players because of the same cultural background and using the identical language.
When searching for qualified coaches, Chinese pro baseball teams like to hire those from outside the mainland.
Coaches from Taiwan are their first choices also because of comparatively lower costs than recruiting coaches from foreign nations.
There are presently 10 pro baseball teams in the China Baseball Leagues (CBL) and five of them have retained coaches from Taiwan who helped them win the first four top spots in the just-concluded season.
Chiang Tai-chuan from Taiwan has spent 10 years in mainland China. He has worked with two teams, including leading the Tianjin Lions, to capture the 2012 CBL championship.
Coach Lin Yi-tseng, who used to lead the Brothers team in Taiwan, and pitching coach Chao Jun-yang led the Beijing Tigers to win second place.
Coach Lin Guang-chung and former pitcher Lai You-liang from Taiwan guided the Chinese team based in Shanghai to take the third place.
Former pitching coach Lin Guang-hong in Taiwan helped the team from Jiangsu province to win fourth place this season.
Chiang said he enjoyed his new coaching career in mainland China.
He and other coaches said that they are glad to have a new career in the mainland since there are now more coaches and limited vacancies for coaching jobs available in the highly competitive pro baseball league in Taiwan.
But all coaches working in China also mentioned tough challenges to work in the mainland because there are yearlong highly intensive training programs for the players, although Chinese pro baseball is still not as mature or popular as it is in Taiwan.
