One Singporean linked to convicted match-fixer Wilson Raj Perumal and three Malaysians were arrested by the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (CPIB) on Tuesday night.
The arrests are believed to be in connection with the Malaysian Super League (MSL) match between the LionsXII and Sarawak, which was played on the same night at the Jalan Besar Stadium.
One of the Malaysians arrested is understood to be a match official. The game ended in a 3-0 win for LionsXII.
Sarawak coach Robert Alberts told The New Paper on Wednesday night that the referee for Tuesday's match was changed at the last minute. No reason was given for the change.
This is not the first time this season that MSL matches have come under a cloud of suspicion.
In February, Fifa investigators said that certain MSL matches were compromised and that some involved LionsXII.
The LionsXII, though, have not been implicated in any of these investigations.
The New Paper understands that Tuesday's arrests took place at a hotel. TNP spoke to sources familiar with the Singaporean man Paul (not his real name).
According to them, Paul was a "close associate" of Wilson Raj.
Wilson Raj was arrested in Finland in February last year for trying to leave the country with a fake passport.
He was subsequently sentenced to two years in prison for bribing players, entering Finland with a forged Singapore passport and obstructing the duties of government officials by trying to escape from custody.
Wilson Raj fled Singapore in 2010 after failing to appear for his appeal against a five-year corrective training sentence for injuring an auxiliary police officer.
The notorious match-fixer, who has been linked to compromised matches across the world, is now in Hungary after he was extradited there in March.
It is unclear if Wilson Raj has been charged for match-fixing or is assisting with investigations there.
Despite Wilson Raj's nefarious past, Paul staunchly defended him to TNP when the former was arrested in Finland.
Shortly after Wilson Raj was detained, Paul spoke to TNP and gave his version of what his alleged associate had been up to in Finland.
Turning up for the meeting with a welder's mask propped over his head and a towel covering his entire face but for a tiny opening for his eyes, he claimed that Wilson Raj had gone to Finland to "invest" in football clubs and visit friends.
Paul's number has appeared in the Kelong King's confiscated mobile phone records and sources have told TNP that Paul would travel with Wilson Raj to foreign destinations and make arrangements with foreign football team officials.
Repeated attempts were made to contact Paul yesterday but he could not be reached.
His employer in the construction industry told TNP that he had also been unable to reach Paul or his family since on Wednesday morning.
He said: "Usually, even when he is overseas, he would respond to my SMS. Early this morning, I received a call from a friend saying that he had been arrested. I called him like a 100 times today but I couldn't get through."
Sounding visibly frustrated, he added: "I brought him on board to stop all his nonsense and do some proper work.
"I don't know why he has to get himself messed up in all that again. And he talks about it openly. It's unbelievable."
TNP contacted CPIB regarding the arrests but they did not respond to queries at press time.
However, a Fifa investigator, who wanted to be known only as John, said: "This arrest is significant because we believe the persons involved are part of a global match-fixing syndicate.
"The arrests will send a clear message to other people involved that their activities are known not only to sporting bodies but law enforcement agencies as well."
