This high, the wind is your worst enemy; a tightly-secured harness and a motley arrangement of wood and rope your only allies.
For this instalment of Adrenaline, this intrepid reporter was sent for a walk through the treetops. Well, it's not so simple.
ClimbMax, one of the stations at the MegaZip Adventure Park on Sentosa, is an aerial obstacle course that requires a mix of balance, strength and endurance - not to mention a big dose of courage.
The ropes quake with every tremble of your body, and sway with every gust of wind.
It's terrifying - and, in a crazy, life-affirming way, it's ridiculously exciting.
"It's as if you become Indiana Jones," says Mrs Mayumi Funato, 42.
The Japanese woman, in Singapore for the week, was there with Arisa, her 12-year-old daughter.
The duo had braved the most difficult level of the course, and emerged flushed and sweaty - and eager for more.
"We'll come again when we're back in Singapore. It was very tiring, and we were so scared that we were shaking. But we had so much fun," she says.
And fun in the face of fear is precisely what this course is about.
Explains Mr Zack Jupri, a training and safety instructor at the course: "I always tell people, take the course like you take life. Every obstacle is a hurdle. It's about pressing on even when you think you can't go on any more."
And ClimbMax is just one of the stations at the MegaZip Adventure Park.
The park has a rock-climbing wall called the NorthFace, and a simulated parachute jump called the ParaJump, where you jump off a 15m tower.
ClimbMax attracts over 30,000 adventurers a year. The obstacle course has three levels of difficulty to choose from.
The first level is just 4m off the ground; the second level 8m; and the third is at a whopping 12m, about the height of a four-storey building.
The three different courses are placed one above the other.
Each level, which differs in terms of complexity, has 12 activities.
The first level has easier activities, such as a horizontal ladder, which Mr Jupri says requires more balance than strength.
The higher levels have fewer support ropes.
The obstacles become more wobbly, swaying each time you shift your weight, and are much more complex to navigate.
On one of them, you're balanced precariously on a narrow tight-rope that bounces with each step.
The support ropes at the side sag under your weight, so you have to cling to your harness to keep stable.
"Anyone can do it. It's an adventure for everyone and anyone," says Mr Jupri.
According to him, ClimbMax is for kids, for adults and for the young-at-heart.
Mr Jupri says he has seen a 69-year-old triathlete tackle the level 3 course with amazing agility. Other "adventurers" include those with Down syndrome, or hearing difficulties. There was even a one-armed participant. The crew is ready to help out if the situation calls for extra supervision.
ClimbMax has had some local celebs on the ropes too. Radio deejays Rod Monteiro and The Muttons - a duo comprising Justin Ang and Vernon A, have dropped by.
"The Muttons were a bit scared," says Mr Jupri with a laugh. "They stuck to level 1."
While we were there, Isabella and Maria Toms, a pair of 11-year-old twins, completed one lap on level 2.
The two students from the Singapore International School in Hong Kong, who were on holiday here, then went on to the hardest level.
"I was scared at first, but once I finished the second level, I felt brave and strong," says Maria.
On weekdays, most of the customers are tourists, but Mr Jupri says the park does see its fair share of Singaporeans on weekends and holidays.
While some come alone for physical training, most people come in groups, he says.
The park instructors help plan team-building programmes for corporate groups. They also cater for birthday parties.
"We believe the first line of encouragement comes from the inner circle, like family and friends.
This support is definitely better than strangers. The crew members only step in when things get complicated," says Mr Jupri.
"It's a good activity for bonding, where people can encourage each other and find mutual strength."
The course at Sentosa, he says, is only one of two such "treetop" aerial courses in Singapore.
The other course is Forest Adventure, at Bedok Reservoir.
At Forest Adventure, you can swing 6m above the ground from tree to tree, and navigate across rope bridges and swings.
It has a Grand Course, with 34 obstacles, and a less daunting course for children between the heights of 1.1m and 1.45m, with 16 obstacles.
Mr Jupri has been in the outdoor activities business for nine years and joined MegaZip two years ago.
He says: "At ClimbMax, it's about challenging yourself. It's about the thrill."
Mr Steve Wood, the director of operations at MegaZip, agrees: "It's all in your mind. You guys always say 'Cannot lah, cannot lah.'"
"Here, you discover, can lah, can lah."
There are blond kids darting through the ClimbMax obstacle course below us.
Then there's me and my colleague, photographer Ng Jun Sen, clinging on to ropes for dear life, inching our way through the course.
The kids, lithe and agile, take just under 45 minutes to complete the course. We take twice the time.
"Try not to sweat. Look glam," Jun Sen tells me before we start.
"Okay, can," I reply.
Famous last words.
Looking glam soon became the furthest thing from my mind.
I'm 12m off the ground, dangling from a pair of safety wires secured to my harness. The sun is blazing hot, but every gust of wind sends chills down my spine.
We sweat buckets, our knees shake, and we have several mental breakdowns.
I've never heard Jun Sen, my coursemate for nearly four years, curse so much before.
Normally mild-mannered and cool-headed, he is reduced to heated muttering as he battles to keep his balance.
He has a bulky camera on him and a heavy camera accessory pouch secured to his body.
The extra load messes up his centre of gravity.
"This is the worst assignment ever," he tells me mournfully. "I'm going to die."
It's not the height that gets to us. It's quite calming to look around to see leafy, green treetops, and ships at sea in the distance.
It's the vulnerability that does it - the lack of stability and loss of control over our environment.
Balancing on a piece of rope makes me feel like a ridiculous parody of an acrobat.
There's a whole lot of thinking and planning to tackle the obstacles up here. Which is a bit hard with the constant rush of blood to my head.
Trying to sidle across a cargo net that sways precariously in the wind, I spend a lot of time wondering how and where to place my feet.
Just a centimetre off and I start to wobble giddily. I feel myself tilting backwards, and change my footing desperately to spread my weight.
The net stabilises, just a little.
Below us, the kids have completed one lap, and are charging up for yet another round.
Above them, Jun Sen and I are still whipping back and forth in the wind.
From the ground, it all looks deceptively simple.
It's not. But in the end, when I'm back on solid ground, I can't help but feel proud of myself.
This is the closest I've got to defying death. This is the closest thing I've had to adventure. I would pat myself on the back - if my arm muscles weren't still aching.
You need: - T-shirt - Jeans or shorts - Covered shoes Safety harnesses are provided
ClimbMax at MegaZip Adventure Park - At Imbiah Hill Road, Sentosa Island - Open daily 11am to 7pm - Minimum height: 120cm - Maximum weight: 120kg - Price: $35 for 2 levels - Group and online package discounts available.
