It was a tournament that Singapore Hockey Federation (SHF) had prioritised over next week's Junior Asia Cup, so much so that it opted to forgo the youth competition.
But after Singapore's participation in the AHF (Asian Hockey Federation) Cup ended in Bangkok yesterday with a dismal sixth-placed finish, national coach Solomon Casoojee was an angry man.
The South African was so frustrated by his team's showings that he told The New Paper that he is contemplating dropping some of his players.
He said: "A few guys here really need to seriously think about what they are doing here and if they want to be a part of the national team.
"Some of them don't value the flag on their jersey.
"I have to go back and start thinking about my selection for future national squads."
Prior to the tournament, Casoojee had targeted at least a spot in the semi-finals but his charges fell short of their objective, finishing third in a group featuring Taiwan, Thailand and Bangladesh with a win, a draw and a loss.
Then in the 5th/6th place play-off yesterday, Singapore lost 3-2 to Uzbekistan.
Speaking to TNP shortly after the result, Casoojee didn't mince his words.
He said: "This is the worst tournament since I took charge (last March). I'm bitterly disappointed with the rubbish we have dished out.
"The reason I'm so frustrated is that we didn't perform to even one tenth of what we're capable of. "Our tactical discipline and execution were poor.
"They are elite athletes and they need to behave appropriately when it comes to the basics like rest and hydration."
When told of his coach's comments, national player Harjeet Singh said that the team were disappointed but insisted they gave their all.
He said: "Any coach would be pissed off after what happened but sometimes things just don't work out as planned. There is no doubt we gave our all.
"We were all over Taiwan when we needed a win against them to make the semis, but we just couldn't find the winning goal.
"This may be seen as an excuse but the pitch was quite bad and the umpiring was atrocious. And I think our lack of experience showed.
"We had a lot of young players and I know they have played in the YOG (Youth Olympic Games) and so on but, at the senior level, it is a different ball game."
