Gotcha! You scaly one. Gotcha. Both of you. Finally, order was restored. I have had my pound of fish. No, make that two pounds. Uncle and nephew. Big Huat and Little Huat.
With the group matches and the quarter- finals done and dusted, let's just say I am feeling chippy.
Yes, chippy as in what goes with battered fish - and, believe me, I know of two fish who have been battered and bruised.
Indeed, even as we were halfway through the group matches, I was beginning to hate everything fish. Everything, especially those fishy jokes which were thrown at me at the pub and the betting shop.
And all because some arrogant arowanas seemed to possess some psychic power which, many seem to believe, allowed them to predict the outcome of certain matches being played at Euro 2012.
Sure, Big Huat and Little Huat had their reputation padded up a bit when they seemed on the ball in the first few matches.
Like, Big Ego picked Poland and Greece to draw the opener - which they did. Then the nephew got into the act and together with his big-headed uncle, he predicted England and France to draw.
Huat the fish! They were building up quite a fan base in and around the Lim Chu Kang area. But like they say, the higher you go, the harder you fall.
So, when I heard the uncle Huat had picked Ukraine to beat England, I knew he was losing his mojo - or whatever fish call it. Same with the small fry. He picked a draw. Well, it could have happened had it not been for the referees having brains and eyes the size of fishes.
To cut to the chase. I had picked England and I was right back in the swim of things. Like a shark, I was smelling blood and the chase was on.
Into the quarter-finals and it was two apiece in the great tipping battle between man and fish. Little Huat, with just one correct pick, was finding it hard to keep up.
However, I had sensed that the Huats were losing their psychic powers and I wondered when they would go belly-up.
So came the quarters and, boy, was it a massacre. For me, it was like fishing for apples at a funfair. Easy stuff. In quick succession, I picked Portugal, Germany, Spain and England to win. Three out of four was as good a score as any.
As expected, Big Head faltered. His only hit was when he picked Portugal. As for Little Huat, he had correctly picked Germany.
So, as of last Monday morning it read Man 5, Fish 3, Fry 2.
With that sorted out, I believe I can now gloat a little - and I will. After all, until now, I've been up to my gills in fish jokes.
Football, not fishball!
So, to the two slimy swimmers, their sucker fish tank-mates and all their fans at Qian Hu fish farm, I say: "This is football, not fishball. It is played on land - although, sometimes, something called 'kelong' gets in the way. It's a fishy thing, kelong. But I won't dwell on it.
"Anyway, the kinks have been ironed out and I'm swimming away."
Okay, this is getting serious. What am I doing talking to fish?
But, seriously, I knew I had to talk at someone from the Qian Hu fish farm where I knew Big Huat's retinue were assembled.
I could imagine some of the thoughts swirling through their minds as they watched their psycho - I mean, psychic - swim around in his tank.
"Now, let's see. What will it be? Fried or steamed?"
So I made the call and, as expected, the mood was sombre. Dr Alex Chang, who trained the Huats to do their stuff, said: "Okay, they got it wrong and sure, we're disappointed.
"But there are still three matches to be played and, sure as ever, we will be back. We hope the break until the semi-finals will give the Huats, especially our champion Big Huat, the chance to recharge their batteries, so to speak, and harness their psychic powers.
"Believe, we will go out with a bang."
That will be good.
But I have this fishy feeling, come next week, I will be having fish on the menu.
Fried, steamed, battered. Eyes, tails, heads and all.
