Someone remarked that the real reason Roy Hodgson failed at Liverpool was that he isn't Kenny Dalglish.
When the FA announced him as England manager on Tuesday, the raised eyebrows and murmurs in the fraternity told the story - few were expecting the news.
He is, after all, not Harry Redknapp, the popular choice.
This has Steve McClaren written all over it. If the marriage turns awry, the media will not hesitate to dish out the Wally-with-the-Brolly treatment.
Yet, there is something more thoughtful about the FA's approach this time.
Disillusioned with the lack of success of the previous two high-profile foreign managers - Sven-Goran Eriksson and Fabio Capello - England have long decided that they wanted an Englishman at the helm.
Unfortunately, there aren't that many choices at their disposal.
Until Hodgson convinces the public with results, he will continue to live in Redknapp's shadow.
The Tottenham manager turned the London club from relegation fodder into a top-four side.
Hodgson's last stint in the big time was a pathetic spell at Liverpool, who took only slightly more than six months to relieve him from his misery.
In his 31 games (all competitions) in charge - the shortest reign of any Liverpool manager - he won them just 13 games, which translates into a win percentage of 41.93.
Yet, the only reason Dalglish is faring better than him in his second stint at the Reds is that the team are enjoying a solid cup run this season.
Taking into account only Premiership games, Dalglish's win percentage stands at 42.59.
If the King, armed with a generous transfer kitty, couldn't perform much better, then what chance did Hodgson have of turning Liverpool into world-beaters?
His record at other teams should not be overshadowed by one ill-fated Liverpool assignment.
The FA knew what it was doing when it appointed the 64-year-old as England's 13th permanent manager.
David Bernstein, the FA chairman, said: "This is the first time the FA has appointed an England manager with any previous experience of international football."
Hodgson's managerial career spans 36 years, during which he coached a total of 18 teams in eight different countries. No other English candidate comes close to that.
Hodgson has a secret weapon.
He has a knack of turning mediocre sides, which is exactly what England are, into over-achievers.
He led unfancied Switzerland to the last 16 of the 1994 World Cup, secured their qualification for Euro 1996, took Finland to the brink of a spot in Euro 2008, and guided Fulham to the 2010 Europa League final.
Hodgson is all substance but no style. That's his biggest problem.
It seems unlikely he will lead England to the Euro 2012 crown.
Compare the list of eligible players for England's campaign with those of Germany, Spain or even France, and one can easily conclude that the Three Lions are nothing but underdogs attempting to punch above their weight.
That's exactly the kind of job Hodgson thrives in.
