Sticks and stones may break my bones, but burning my effigy does not scare me.
Football Association of Malaysia (FAM) general secretary Azzuddin Ahmad told The New Paper yesterday that he is unfazed by some Kelantan fans' antics of burning a straw figure bearing his picture.
"I am not affected at all," the 65-year-old scoffed.
"You must know my background. I'm a soldier. I'm used to this type of criticism. It's just a waste of time."
Azzuddin, a battle-hardened, retired lieutenant-general in the Malaysian Armed Forces, assumed his current role in the FAM in 2007.
Before Kelantan's Malaysian Super League game against T-Team last Saturday, about 100 of the Red Warriors' fans gathered as three effigies were burnt.
One featured the picture of Azzuddin, another was of Berita Harian Malaysia journalist Wan Fakhrul Wan Bakar, and the third had a question mark.
The Kelantan fans were angry that the FAM suspended its football association president Tan Sri Annuar Musa for 30 months due to his out-of-turn comments about the Malaysian national team.
Khairi Yazid, president of Kelantan fan club kelate.net - which was not involved in the demonstration - explained the fans' anger towards Azzuddin and Fakhrul.
"A lot of fans are upset with Fakhrul because his articles about Kelantan always have a negative slant," said Khairi.
"And as for Azzuddin, he always practises double standards when dealing with cases involving Kelantan, as opposed to those of other teams."
Fakhrul, 29, told TNP that he was shaken by the event, but will lie low to avoid worsening the situation.
"It started on Facebook, right after Tan Sri (Annuar) was banned," he said. "I received more than 50 direct messages from Kelantan fans, cursing me and threatening to beat me up.
"I have formed a close working relationship with Azzuddin and (FAM vice-president) Hamidin Amin over the years, plus I am a Selangor supporter.
"These factors made the Kelantan fans feel I was biased against their team, even though I've only reported facts."
On Sunday night, the word on the grapevine was that the FAM would dock Kelantan five points, and ban them from playing five home games at the Sultan Mohammad IV Stadium in Kota Baru, including their next home league outing against the LionsXII on May 4.
Azzuddin was tight-lipped on the matter, but he did not rule out the ban.
If the points' deduction and ban of home stadium do take place, though, it could have a massive effect on the title race.
The LionsXII have a five-point cushion at the top of the table over Kelantan, who have played three games less.
Kelantan coach Bojan Hodak, who found out about the incident through Facebook, said: "As a coach, I can't do much about off-the-field activities, so I would rather focus on getting my team in shape on the field so that we can win games and get the points needed to retain our title."
LionsXII coach V Sundramoorthy also steered clear of the controversy, preferring to focus on his team.
He said: "We must make sure we have our destiny in our own hands. If we keep winning, we will have a chance to win the title."
LionsXII captain Shahril Ishak echoed his coach's sentiments.
He said: "If there is really a five-point deduction, I feel it's unlucky for Kelantan, but great news for LionsXII and Terengganu in terms of the title race.
"But these are unconfirmed so, until then, we have to focus on our own games and try to win each one of them, especially the upcoming one against Kelantan."
