A famous footballer, a filial son and a good family man.
Three special qualities that made Quah Kim Beng extraordinary.
As his long-time "kampong neighbour" at the former Naval Base, I had always admired Kim Beng for also being a down-to-earth gentleman.
When I received news of his passing away last Saturday afternoon, due to old age (79) at the Khoo Teck Puat Hospital, I was stunned into silence.
Moments later my mind flashed back to the days when I enjoyed reading and talking about his footballing exploits in the famous "V" jersey of Singapore as a versatile midfielder.
Kim Beng was the pioneer of the Quah footballing tradition that started in 1954 when he was a dockyard mechanic (he later worked for Standard Chartered Bank).
And it lasted 28 years, during which nine siblings of the Quah family strutted their diverse stuff for the national team.
Kim Swee was famous for his bounce off the pitch and timely headers, Kim Siak for his supreme reading of the game, Kim Lye for his samba skills and scoring talent and Kim Song for his trickery and dashes down the flanks.
Sisters Theresa, Doreen and Rosa also donned national colours for the women's team in the Sixties. I had spoken to Kim Beng multiple times, but I enjoyed two in-depth interviews I did with him at his home at Jalan Kemuning in Sembawang.
The second of the interviews was done when he had just had a heart bypass operation some 12 years ago and, of course, it was focused on the sunshine day in 1954 when he was inducted into the Singapore team.
Then, Kim Beng said: "I was a kampung footballer, enjoying my game which I picked up seriously at 14, playing with teens with a club named Good Companion Youth Club on any reasonably big patch of green that was available at the Naval Base.
"Then one sunny afternoon in 1950, the Englishman who 'adopted' the club took us for a friendly match at Farrer Park. Impressed by my skills, 'Uncle' Choo Seng Quee approached me after the game.
"The first thing he said was 'okay, you play for us'. I had to then persuade my dad to allow me to make regular bus-and-taxi journeys from Sembawang to Farrer Park, come rain or shine, to train under the tough taskmaster with Star Soccerites, a big-name club in those days.
"From Star Soccerites, I moved to Chinese Athletic and then Tigers. Within four years, I made my debut for Singapore against a Korean team at Jalan Besar Stadium."
On that May evening, a lean, handsome teenager from the outpost of Naval Base had broken an "old-boy" stranglehold with little clue that he would be setting a 28-year Quah tradition that was to last until 1982.
So Kim Swee, Kim Choon, Kim Siak, Kim Lye and Kim Song and - in the intervening years during the Sixties, sisters Teresa, Doreen and Rosa - all subsequently donned national colours.
If these siblings must say 'thank you' to the affable Kim Beng for showing the way to Singapore soccer, the local footballing fraternity must pay gratitude to him for starting the production line that served Singapore, at times three of them playing in the same team.
Kim Song said last Saturday: "He started the ball rolling in the Fifties, and my brothers, sisters and I continued a proud tradition. He was a great role model."
Kim Tiong, the youngest of the brothers who did not don the national soccer boots but was a Singapore athlete who won a South-east Asia Peninisular Games gold medal in 1975, said last Saturday: "What I admired him most was for the way he looked after my mum.
"After all my siblings had married and moved out, I was staying with my mum at a Sembawang bungalow. I used to come back from work late on some days, and on those nights Kim Beng would be with mum until I got back home."
Kim Beng's passing is a sad loss, especially to wife Lily and three children, but the footballing legacy he left behind will last forever.
Bye, Beng.
The wake is held at 23, Jalan Kemuning, Sembawang. The funeral was last Sunday at 5pm.
