From 2-0 to 2-2.
One could not blame Raffles Girls' School's (RGS) squash coach Joannah Yue for feeling flustered going into the deciding match of the Girls' B Division team final against Singapore Chinese Girls' School (SCGS) at the National Inter-School Squash Championships on Tuesday.
Her team had stormed into a 2-0 lead at the Kallang Squash &amp; Tennis Centre after their first two players - Chong Yin Jean and captain Denise Lim - delivered wins.
In the third match, RGS' Clara Tan won the first two games and looked certain to deliver the winning point for her school.
But her opponent Lee Rui Chen refused to give up, staging a remarkable comeback to win the next three games and keep her team in the tie.
SCGS' Janie Siow then beat Heidi Tan 3-0 (11-2, 11-7, 11-5) in the fourth match to set up a tense finale.
The momentum was clearly with SCGS, although Yue was quietly confident of her team's chances.
Her faith in her final player, Michelle Tay, paid off as the RGS star outclassed SCGS' Wong Hui Ling 11-7, 11-5, 11-4 to retain the B Division team title they won last year by beating the same opponents.
"I was rather confident because Michelle is one of my top players. She's generally very steady and composed. I just told her not to make mistakes and she managed to do it," said Yue, when asked what was on her mind going into the rubber match.
"I'm very pleased with the result. SCGS put up a really good fight and so did my girls. They have delivered and I'm very happy for them."
RGS captain Denise also paid tribute to her teammate.
She said: "I think she (Michelle) was very steady today, and she was able to conquer her anxiety and she played to our expectations."
Michelle might have won the decider with ease, but Yue felt that her team should have sealed a 3-0 victory.
She said: "Clara should have won her match in three sets when she was 10-7 up (in the third set).
"We could have finished at 3-0, and that would take the pressure off the fourth and fifth players."
In the 3rd/4th placing match, Methodist Girls' School beat National Junior College 5-0 to clinch third place.
