NEWCASTLE 0
MAN CITY 2 (Yaya Toure 70, 89)
REPORTING FROM SPORTS DIRECT ARENA
MANCHESTER City piled the pressure on their neighbours at the Sports Direct Arena yesterday, huffing and puffing and finally breaking down a determined Newcastle United.
Yaya Toure, indisputably the most important of all their acquisitions, dealt the hammer blow, delicately placing a shot into the bottom corner of Tim Krul's goal.
With just two minutes to go, he added a decisive second from close range.
Victory at Queens Park Rangers next Sunday should seal the title.
They are so close now that they can taste it.
But Roberto Mancini was made to work for this.
Forced to keep two midfielders back to deal with the surprise of two out-and-out Newcastle strikers, City couldn't commit as many men to the attack as they wanted.
Game changer
Toure was given defensive detail, but when the withdrawal of Samir Nasri and the introduction of Nigel de Jong liberated him of responsibility, he changed the game.
There is surely no player in the Premier League with his energy levels.
And he is no defensive clatterer either. The touch and the sophistication of his finish were worthy of an international striker.
It was also the first goal that Newcastle had conceded here for eight hours and 16 minutes. His second was naked opportunism, exploiting Newcastle's desperation for an equaliser, lashing the ball home from the edge of the six-yard box.
Alan Pardew's decision to dump the 4-3-3 formation that had served him so well at Stamford Bridge was a shock, but it wasn't without merit.
Though it left Newcastle vulnerable in the centre, putting Demba Ba and Papiss Cisse at the top of an orthodox 4-4-2 allowed them to relieve pressure by keeping City occupied in their own half.
It was not a complete success. Toure and Gareth Barry dropped deep and, for the most part, crushed the Senegalese pair against that impenetrable wall of Vincent Kompany and Joleon Lescott. But Newcastle had their chances.
A spell of pressure midway through the first half saw Jonas Gutierrez and Hatem Ben Arfa finally exerting some influence on affairs, but they found Joe Hart in uncompromising mood.
For the most part, they were pinned back behind their walls, hurling themselves in the way of shots to keep City at bay.
Newcastle's back four were given the examination of their lives, clattering back and forth, wide and narrow, desperately trying the seal the gaps in their lines as a fluid City front four of Carlos Tevez, Sergio Aguero, Samir Nasri and David Silva tormented them.
So much for choking. This was a composed and professional performance from City, a endearing display of controlled power.
Though the pressure built on them with every passing minute, and Newcastle refused to yield, jabbing at them like a plucky underdog, they refused to panic.
At precisely the right moment, Mancini made his change, unleashed Yaya and secured a famous victory.
For Newcastle, it may mean an end to the dream of Champions League football.
Regardless of which competition they win the right to play for, they can be proud of their season. Pardew started the season with a squad stripped of their biggest names.
He will end it knowing that he has a team that can stand nose-to-nose with the best and hold their own.
If he isn't named as the Manager of the Year, then there is something seriously wrong.
The only person who might deny him was one of the first to shake his hand at the end.
Mancini has lived in peril since taking this job, knowing that his huge resources mean incredible pressure.
He has dealt with it masterfully. City are very nearly there.
