The going has been tough, but the Football Association of Singapore (FAS) has reiterated it will continue to work towards improving the S-League.
In response to queries from The New Paper, the FAS admitted "there was a drop in attendance (figures) as compared to previous years", although it declined to provide figures.
Said an FAS spokesman: "The FAS and the S-League management recognise that more can be done to draw more fans.
"We are always looking at ways to improve the league and recognise areas for improvement such as match attendances, and we are working with all stakeholders to improve in these areas."
Some S-League clubs with no main sponsors have decided to streamline their operations due to budget constraints (see main story).
The FAS noted that clubs have received significantly larger subsidies over the last two years - an increase of about 70 per cent from 2010.
The S-League has also secured funding from the Tote Board for the next four years, which will help in managing the clubs' operating budgets to allow them to attract better quality foreign players as well as to retain their players.
Said the FAS spokesman: "All S-League clubs have always been operating on a tight annual budget and exercise prudence in their expenditure. This is more evident now in view of more difficult revenue streams in recent years."
The FAS highlighted several policies that have been put in place to assist clubs to better manage their finances as well as to ensure proper accounting governance.
For example, there are shared services for clubs such as group insurance to reduce expenses and the existence of a salary cap for players ensures that club spending is within budget.
Without elaborating, the FAS revealed it is working on several initiatives which will be introduced in the second half of the season, while Balestier Khalsa vice-chairman S Thavaneson's suggestion to increase the number of league matches is also apparently under review.
Some fans wonder if the S-League will ever be able to match the sizeable crowds currently turning up for LionsXII matches in the Malaysian Super League.
Said the FAS: "The S-League was commended by the Asian Football Confederation for the quality and competitiveness of the players and participating teams, including the foreign teams.
"We would like to reiterate that the S-League is the key pillar of Singapore football and it is imperative that it stays strong for the betterment of football development in Singapore from the youth levels to the professional league to the national teams.
