KUALA LUMPUR - It was the biggest prize for marathon runner Scully Pak when her boyfriend, kneeling in the middle of Dataran Merdeka and watched by a huge admiring crowd, proposed to her at the end of the race.
The lass from Klang was further stunned when Victor Lieu extended a ring while a banner held by some sporting friends unfurled with the romantic proposal written in Chinese and English.
Tears welling in her eyes and encouraged by the crowd Pak said "Yes!" and the whole field erupted in claps and cheers.
They immediately called their parents to break the good news.
The pair, who had been primary school classmates at SK Sungai Way here, had both registered for the Standard Chartered KL Marathon that was held yesterday.
However, Lieu chose to stay out of the competition.
"I wanted to use the time to prepare for my proposal to Pak when she completes her run," he said sheepishly.
Lieu, 28, who works with a car dealership in Bangi, said he spent a week preparing for the big moment and roped in several close friends to pull off the stunt.
"We had known each other since primary school but later lost contact.
"However, we met again about five years ago and started dating," he said.
Their love story grew with the annual marathon, which both had faithfully taken part in since 2009.
An overwhelmed Pak, also 28, said she will always remember the proposal as one of the most romantic events in her life.
"I was totally shocked and speechless when Lieu knelt and proposed to me by offering a ring," she said.
They have yet to decide on the day to tie the knot but they agree the Standard Chartered KL Marathon this year had been more than just a Run For Life event; it is the beginning of a marathon life together.
Aside the romantic duo, 37-year-old Australian sales manager Trent Morrow also caught the attention of the crowd when he came in a Superman costume, complete with a red cape.
Trent, from Sydney, said it was his first outing in Malaysia and the run marked his 60th marathon appearance after racing previously in New York, London, Tokyo, Morocco, Bali, Phuket and Australia.
"I began participating in marathons since 2008 to get some balance back in my life and to lose some weight," he said, adding that he also runs for children's charities.
Deputy Prime Minister Tan Sri Muhyiddin flagged off the more than 28,000 participants.
"Such events are significant in showcasing the unity and peace enjoyed by the nation's multiracial society, in particular among the youths," he said in his speech.
"I see a lot of young Malaysians and this is the best way to show to foreigners and also the world how strong young Malaysians are united as one."
