WARSAW - Every once in a while, a sports tournament pits two nations against each other for whom the confrontation could not be more timely.
Greece progressed from the Euro 2012 group stage against all expectations and will play Germany on Friday for a place in the semi-finals.
In Athens, the soccer clash is being relished. German Chancellor Angela Merkel is a deeply unpopular figure in Greece - for the tough austerity principles she has imposed on the country mired in debt, and a deep recession - where optimism about the future is in short supply.
"Get us Merkel now," screamed several sport websites, once the meeting with Germany was clear. "Bring it on," said Greek newspaper Sport Day.
After weeks of political turmoil, Greek voters on Sunday gave parties supporting a bailout a slim parliamentary majority, to the rest of the euro zone's intense relief.
"This is the classic case of a football match that will carry a meaning that goes well beyond sports," Mr Jorgo Chatzimarkakis, a German of Greek descent who is a centrist member of the European Parliament, told Italian daily La Stampa.
"The atmosphere is reminiscent of that in World War II," he added, referring to the military conflict that tore Europe apart, in which Nazi Germany occupied Greece.
Germany's Foreign Minister, Mr Guido Westerwelle, took a more diplomatic view.
"It will be a German-Greek football party," he said.
With several dangerously indebted nations competing in the tournament, Europe's economic crisis has constantly lurked in the background, as politicians from all countries hope that success on the pitch can lift national gloom.
Several football coaches have given bemused or irritated responses when questioned about euro-zone austerity programmes, when they would rather talk about tactics.
Among the euro-zone countries struggling the hardest with debt, Portugal, Greece, Spain and Italy have secured quarter-final berths. For Ireland, however, three lost matches mean that their Cup dreams are over.
Still, a group of Ireland fans won Internet fame when posing with a banner saying "Angela Merkel thinks we are working".
The Greek team, which staged the biggest upset of the tournament in knocking out Russia 1-0 to earn their quarter-final spot, know the joy they are bringing to their country.
Midfielder Giannis Maniatis said on Monday: "The most important thing for us is to give some happiness to the Greek people, that's all, to make them celebrate in the street, given everything that is going on."
The team have faced widespread mockery, such as cartoons of a Greek player jumping to catch and pocket an euro coin flipped by the referee, or a Greek team in jerseys emblazoned with a German eagle, suggesting that Germany is their sponsor.
Greek conservative leader Antonis Samaras, who won Sunday's election and who wants to renegotiate Greece's bailout deal, was jokingly asked if he would also negotiate with Dr Merkel on the match. "No, this is not negotiable," he laughed.
Top-selling German daily Bild, which has often ribbed Greece by handing out drachmas - the country's pre-euro currency - in Athens or suggesting the country sell an island, is readying for battle.
Columnist Franz Josef Wagner wrote: "The Greek team are rubbish, compared to world-class stars but, as their country is in a state of emergency, they feel a need to help their country.
"Their country is fighting a losing battle. A losing battle is a place for heroes. The Greeks played so that their country could rise from the ashes and smile again."
