Every Sunday morning at an open field in Bedok South, an elderly man casts his eye over a group of aspiring young footballers.
But this silver-haired football coach is no ordinary grandfather.
He is Majid Ariff, considered by many to be the greatest footballer Singapore has ever produced and the only one to play for the Asian All-Stars team, in 1966.
He turns 75 next month, but his passion for the sport which he ruled in the 60s and 70s is as strong as ever.
Majid continues to coach because he still wants to help his country produce talented footballers.
So he does it for free.
"I don't have the heart to charge people money lah," he says with a smile.
"I like to pass down what I know to youngsters. Give me a boy who is nine or 10 years old and, in three years' time, he'll have the basics he needs to make it.
"From then on, it all depends on himself."
Majid has done it before, of course.
Pass tricks of the trade, or as he calls them "weapons", to a player who was determined to make it big.
Who was that player?
A certain Fandi Ahmad.
Fandi told former TNP journalist Jeffrey Low in 1995: "Why do you think I seldom fall during or after heading? Ask Majid. He taught me how to tolak (nudge in Malay) here, tolak there, use my elbows, use my shoulders, my back.
Just a slight push, no foul, and the defender is down.
"When I was six or seven, I already saw him (Majid) play. Magic, man. So it was a big thrill for me to be trained by the most skilful player our country has ever produced."
In 1998, Majid and his protege Fandi - who achieved superstar status in the 1990s - were the only Singaporeans among 116 top Asian players to be nominated for Asia's Footballer of the Century award.
And in 1966, Majid helped the national team finish fourth in the Bangkok Asian Games - still its best-ever showing.
So how good was Majid?
Imagine a player who combines the silky skills of David Silva with the ferocity and aggression of Nigel de Jong.
By all accounts, that was how all-rounded he was.
Majid's natural position was at half-back, or in modern terms, a defensive midfielder.
He admitted he was a "dirty player" who frequently sent his opponents off the pitch (and once, straight into an ambulance) with sneaky elbows to the face.
"But I only did that if I was provoked, or if one of my teammates got hammered first," claimed Majid.
"I whacked over 30 players throughout my career, but never once got sent off.
"But to be honest, if I was still playing and did something similar today, I'd get fined thousands of dollars and banned for months!"
Majid, however, was far from just another hatchet man, for he was astute on the ball as well.
His most famous moment arrived in the 1965 Malaya Cup final, where he dribbled past three Selangor players to score the equaliser which saw Singapore come back from a goal down to win 3-1.
Majid's brilliant talent made him a standout player even when he lined up alongside the giants of Asian football then; the likes of Suk Bahadur - the Pele of Burma - China's export to Blackpool Cheung Chi Wai and India's legendary captain and defender Jarnail Singh.
That Asian All-Star team played a series of international exhibition matches in Malaysia and Singapore against English clubs Sheffield Wednesday, Leicester City and Fulham in 1966.
"For me, he was the best midfielder in Asia at the time," said former Singapore captain Samad Allapitchay, 61.
"He was so skilful and tough, you could never get the ball from him. It was like the ball was superglued to his feet."
Added former Singapore striker Ho Kwang Hock, 55: "He was a joy to watch, so skilful, so intelligent. You can't find a player like him anymore.
"To be an Asian All-Star, you're talking about a different level of quality altogether."
But Majid's career was practically ended when he picked up a nasty injury to his right knee, when playing in a Malaysia Cup match against Kelantan in June 1970.
The match is famous for how the Singapore players were kicked off the park as the Kelantan players romped to an 8-0 victory.
"It was a wet day so their studs were razor sharp... (and) you could tell those players weren't looking to play football any more," said Majid, who was 33 then and called time on his career soon after.
"They just kept going for your legs and one tackle split my knee open.
You could see the white of my bone.
"I remember the team doctor insisted on stitching my knee up right beside the pitch, because he feared the Kelantan fans would attack us on the way to the hospital."
So no-one could blame him for feeling a little bit down that the LionsXII were soundly beaten by the Red Warriors 3-0 at Kota Baru earlier this month.
"Of course I would be happy if we had won, but Kelantan showed they could play," said Majid, who coached the Malaysian side for a short spell in the 1980s.
"Right now, is there a player in Singapore who has that special talent? It seems our national captain Shahril (Ishak) is the only one who has the ability. But he doesn't showcase it all the time.
"People tell me local football is rubbish. I don't think so.
"We just need players to showcase their talent, their ability on the ball. We need to make our football entertaining again."
