One match, two teams, three races.
The Zhenghua Community Sports Council (CSC) and Bukit Timah Community Club (CC) basketball teams faced each other yesterday at the Senja-Cashew CC on the first day of this year's Community Games, each with one non-Chinese team member.
And that's not so unusual for these heartland teams taking part in the Community Games.
The competition kicked off yesterday, with matches in basketball, bowling, badminton and football held in schools, sports complexes and CCs all over Singapore.
To encourage community bonding, participating teams are required to include members of all ages, races and backgrounds from their district.
Mr Matthew Stewart cuts a unique figure in the Zhenghua CSC basketball team.
The Australian-born 18-year-old came to Singapore 12 years ago with his father Darren Stewart, a former S-League player for Balestier Khalsa Football Club.
He started playing basketball when he was in Primary 6 and was in the school team at Serangoon Secondary School.
After he graduated, he was invited by the school's basketball coach, who also coached the Zhenghua CSC team, to join the community team.
Mr Stewart did not know anyone else on the team at first, but soon became part of it.
He told The New Paper: "It feels good to make new friendships and bond with others."
On the other team, Mr Derek Kitikomolsuk, 26, stood ready. His father is Thai and his mother is Singaporean, and he was born in Singapore.
He has played basketball since secondary school and joined the Bukit Timah CC team with his close-knit group of secondary school friends.
"We're here to win and, of course, to play with friends," Mr Kitikomolsuk said.
Race is not the only factor in the Games.
Yesterday's Men's Open badminton games at the Pasir Ris Sports and Recreation Centre saw Mr Abdul Manan Ismail, 49, go up against a player in his late 20s.
"It's very shag (tiring)! It was a hard fight," said Mr Abdul Manan.
He plays badminton once a week with friends at Pasir Ris and has taken part in other badminton competitions such as the Berita Harian-Ashaway-Pilot Pen Badminton Competition.
He said: "Since I have the interest, it's worth it whether I lose or win."
A total of 8,505 players in 1,064 teams will take part in this year's Community Games, which includes a total of seven sports and will last until July.
This year's competition will serve as the qualifying round for the biennial Singapore National Games (SNG), launched last year with 10 sports, including swimming, athletics and dragon boating. The top two teams from each district will go on to compete in the SNG.
Speaking at the launch of the Singapore National Games logo and mascot yesterday, Mr Teo Ser Luck, Minister of State for Trade and Industry and adviser to the Singapore National Games Steering Committee, said: "There are over a thousand teams in the games now. We didn't expect that number of teams when we started."
He also told reporters that more games and options to form teams across district boundaries might be added in the future.
