Singapore held off strong competitors like Tokyo, Pyeong Chang and Kuala Lumpur to retain its position as Asia's best sports city.
Despite the absence of a multi-sports international competition in 2011, Singapore finished in 6th place in this year's biennial SportBuisness Ultimate Sports City award.
This year's award was held in Quebec at the Sport Accord International Convention.
In the 2010 awards, Singapore placed 2nd only to Melbourne due to Singpaore's successful organisation of the Singapore 2010 Youth Olympic Games.
"We are pleased to be named the best sports city in Asia and we are committed towards building a diverse events strategy, one that will help us create a dynamic and sustained sporting culture in Singapore," said Mr Lim Teck Yin, CEO of Singapore Sports Council, speaking from SportAccord.
This year's top spot went to the 2012 Olympic host city, London who ended Melbourne's reign as the number one sports city for the past three consecutive awards.
Melbourne finished second while fellow Australian city, Sydney came in third. New York was this year's biggest mover, climbing from the 10th position in 2010 to the 4th this year.
Awarded by SportBusiness Group, cities are assessed on a diverse range of criteria. This includes the number of federations hosted, the calibre of events, facilities and venues as well as transport and accommodation.
Other factors are security, government support, public sports interest and quality of life.
This year, judges also included social media was also part of the evaluation given the global rise of digital media.
Cities are also graded according to the number of annual sports and major events held or won between 2008 and 2016.
Since 2008, Sporting Singapore has hosted a series of high-profile sports events, including the Formula 1 SingTel Singapore Grand Prix, which won several awards from the international motor sports industry.
The Singapore 2010 Youth Olympic Games also confirmed the city's standards for service excellence and innovation after successfully hosting the inaugural Asian Youth Games in 2009.
In 2011, Sporting Singapore hosted three world championships, namely the World Netball Championships, International Canoe Federation's (ICF) Canoe Marathon World Championships and International Table Tennis Federation's (ITTF) Women's World Cup.
"Over the past decade, Sporting Singapore has made great progress in establishing its brand and presence globally. With the Singapore Sports Hub due to be completed in 2014; our long-term future looks even brighter than ever," added Mr Lim.
