The Netherlands will not have any problems getting out of their "Group of Death" in the Euro 2012, reckons retired football star Edgar Davids.
The challenge for them, however, will be to stay focused and go all the way to win the tournament, said the former Dutch international, who has 74 caps to his name.
The Netherlands have been grouped with one of the tournament's favourites, Germany, as well as Portugal and Denmark, two perennially strong teams.
Davids, 39, likened winning the Euro 2012 to completing a marathon instead of a sprint.
However, with tough group opponents, he believes that the Netherlands would also need to "sprint out of the blocks" - to hit their strides quickly.
"I still think they will win it," he told reporters during the press conference for Tiger Street Football, held outside the Art Science Museum yesterday.
Clad simply in slacks and a T-shirt with his trademark dreadlocks and dark glasses, Davids appeared relaxed and calm - a far cry from his fearsome, combative playing style as a defensive midfielder for his club and country.
He even earned a moniker, "the Pitbull", from Dutch football manager Louis van Gaal, for his dogged marking ability.
The former Ajax Amsterdram, Juventus and Tottenham Hotspur player is in Singapore to promote the five-a-side Tiger Street Football tournament, which stretches over today and tomorrow.
Co-organised by Tiger Beer and ESPN Star Sports, 32 local teams will be vying for the winning prize of US$3,000 (S$3,800), as well as an automatic berth into the Grand Final Tournament to be held in Vietnam on Sept 28.
The runners-up will be awarded US$1,500. (S$2,000)
They will also get a chance to rub shoulders with teams from South American football powerhouses Argentina and Brazil tomorrow, for a chance to win additional cash prizes.
Davids' advice for the young football hopefuls is to just have fun, practise every day and make friends.
Street football is more fast-paced than traditional football, and split-second decisions could be make or break a game.
It is also confined to a small playing space, where strong technical skills will give players the edge.
Davids is the ambassador for SVBN, an official street-soccer federation of the Netherlands.
Davids described the organisation as using street soccer as a platform to teach kids the values of commitment, discipline and dedication.
"Those are the things you need if you want to succeed in school and in life," he said.
"I think in street soccer are the fundamentals for football and also for changing the lives of people."
He also felt that street football is a growing sport and the Tiger Street tournament held in Asia will "lay the foundation for technical skills" in the region.
gerrardl@sph.com.sg
