FOR THE past 24 hours, he had not had a proper rest.
But the joy on Singapore and LionsXII skipper Shahril Ishak's face was plain to see.
Flashing a wide grin, he proudly posed for pictures with his newborn daughter Mysha Aludra - his first child - at Parkway East Hospital yesterday.
According to Shahril, "Mysha" means lifelong happiness, while "Aludra" means purity.
The playmaker added: "I've been really looking forward to becoming a dad.
"My wife and I have waited three years to have a kid since we got married in 2009, so I'm very happy, and very proud."
Although the 28-year-old is known to be a cool customer on the pitch, his wife Nur Hidayah reveals he was flustered as the baby was being delivered.
"He was more excited than me," she laughed.
"Even though I was in control the whole time, he kept telling me, 'Come on Mummy, you can do it!' and, at one point, he even told me to scream."
The healthy, 3.2kg baby arrived on May 17, which incidentally is Shahril's jersey number when he plays for the Lions and in the Malaysian Super League (MSL).
"I think 17 really is my lucky number," he beamed.
"My wedding day was on the 17th, and now my daughter was born on the 17th as well."
Yesterday evening, Shahril was named in national coach Raddy Avramovic's 27-man squad to play friendlies against Hong Kong (June 1) and Malaysia (June 8 and 12) next month.
But a question mark looms over Shahril's participation in those games as he is still recovering from a dislocated left shoulder.
He picked up the injury while scoring the LionsXII's first goal in an MSL match against Kedah last Saturday. The match ended 3-3.
Said Shahril, who was wearing a sling at the hospital: "I think by next Monday, I should know what I need to do (for recovery), whether I need to go for surgery or not.
"So I'll also probably know better how long I'll be out for only then."
Shahril has been in fine form for the LionsXII, netting 10 goals which has made him the joint-second highest goalscorer in the MSL this season.
