SINGAPORE - The Singapore Sports Institute (SSI) has formed partnerships with sports institutes around Asia to help Singapore athletes better prepare for the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics and beyond.
It signed memorandums of understanding with the China Institute of Sports Sciences (CISS) and Hong Kong Sports Institute (HKSI) yesterday, during its sports-science-and-medicine symposium at Concorde Hotel Singapore.
The two-day symposium saw delegates from sports institutes from China, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea and Malaysia taking part in discussions on latest developments in sports science.
Established two years ago, the SSI stands to benefit from the vast experience of these well-established sports institutes, some of which have produced multiple Olympic champions.
For example, the CISS is China's oldest and largest sports research institute.
With 50 years of experience under its belt, it is well-versed in applying scientific research to enhance its athlete-training systems.
It is also very much experienced in using traditional Chinese medicine to treat sports injuries, something that the SSI can look into to better serve Singapore athletes.
Said Associate Professor Fabian Lim, SSI's executive director: "The collaboration with CISS will be an effective gateway into the network of sports institutes in China, enabling us to gain insights into their scientific and training capabilities, which in turn will be a key resource for our athletes."
As for the collaboration with HKSI, the SSI hopes to use its sports-scholarship framework as a guide when formulating its own.
With about 70 per cent of Singapore athletes having to juggle between pursuing sporting excellence and achieving academic ambitions, such a scholarship framework is needed to support local athletes in balancing their school and sports commitments.
Through the SSI's affiliation with these regional institutes, national sports associations will be able to send elite athletes and coaches for training programmes at the partner institutes.
Sports that could possibly benefit from this include archery, canoeing and winter sports.
