PARIS - It was a year ago that Li Na shot to global stardom with a historic win in the French Open women's singles final at Roland Garros.
Her straight-sets demolition of defending champion Francesca Schiavone made her the first Asian player to win a Grand Slam singles title and brought her massive acclaim in her homeland.
Since then, however, it has been tough going for the 30-year-old, and she heads to Paris for her title defence next week, having failed to win another title.
Indeed, this year has been a run of frustrations for Li.
She had four match points in the fourth round of the Australian Open against Kim Clijsters, but failed to convert any of them and lost an epic three-setter.
This was followed by quarter-final exits at Indian Wells, Miami, Stuttgart and Madrid, before she finally showed glimpses of her best form by reaching the final last weekend in Rome.
Once again, though, she let slip a winning position, leading Maria Sharapova by a set and 4-0, but eventually tasting defeat in a third set tie-breaker.
The inability to close out matches, she admitted, is worrying.
"I'm not worried about the forehands or the backhands, it's finishing the matches that is my problem," said Li, who comes to Paris ranked seventh in the world.
"There is not one player out there who gives up in a match, everyone is playing at such a high level.
That's my problem - I need to win easier. It's a big problem for me to close out the matches."
Still, she believes that her form is improving and she will be hoping that her return to Roland Garros will provide a healthy morale boost when she once again steps out onto the red-clay surface on which she looked so comfortable last year.
"I have to say that I feel physically great right now," she said.
"I can slide on court and get back to the opposition and I liked the way I hit on the court. A lot of positive things and I think I am ready for the French Open."
With the women's tournament wide open, Li will start as one of the favourites and much will depend on how she can negotiate the early rounds to set up another run at the title in the second week.
