He has played in 14 out of the 17 editions of the S-League, and has become one of the most respected local footballers.
Well known and respected for his professionalism, when Aleksandar Duric speaks, people listen.
The Singapore and Tampines Rovers striker fears for the health of the S-League, and hopes the football fraternity will band together and come up with a plan to breathe life into the competition.
On Wednesday, Today reported that some local S-League clubs are streamlining their operations after their revenue from clubhouse jackpot machines had taken a beating from the casinos in the two Integrated Resorts.
Some of these clubs have no main sponsors to supplement S-League subsidies that can be worth as much as $800,000.
One of Singapore football's most prolific marksmen over the last few years, Duric, 42, said on Wednesday: "We are most definitely in a crisis.
"We should stop hiding, we must face the reality - something needs to be done.
"When I first came to the S-League in 1999, there was more money pumped in and we had so many stars and household names.
"It is all about money, but it is all connected.
"When there are no fans in the stadium, there is nothing in it for the sponsors to come in. Without money from the sponsors, it is near impossible to bring in quality players who can attract fans.
"If clubs don't find a way to bring in the money, they will go under."
Balestier Khalsa vice-chairman S Thavaneson, however, feels that talk of a crisis is an "over-reaction", but agrees that changes have to be made swiftly to improve the league.
His main concern is the format of the competition, which has seen a reduction from last season's 33 games to 24 this year.
Teams now play two rounds of matches instead of three. But the length of this year's campaign is the same as last season - February to November.
It means there are more breaks during the season, something Duric described as "three or four pre-seasons".
Said Thavaneson: "How do we sustain interest and keep players match-fit?
"Effectively, we are paying the players 12 months' salary to do six months' work. For the foreigners, we also have to provide accommodation, so it makes no sense to me because no company can justify paying its employees in such a manner."
Thavaneson and Duric both suggest increasing the number of matches by grouping the top and bottom halves of the league after two rounds of fixtures, before adding two more rounds to each group, much like the system that was used in the Scottish Premier League.
"I brought this up at the last chairmen's meeting and I believe it is being looked into, but we must come up with a solution for the next season fast, preferably within the next 30 days."
Fans continue to shun the S-League and Leong Kok Fann, chairman of Geylang United - one of the clubs that have cut costs - concedes that wooing spectators, and convincing sponsors to come on board, are the clubs' biggest challenges.
He said: "Our main source of funding comes from the S-League subsidies, but the jackpot machines are also important because it is not easy to get sponsors in this economic climate.
"As for staffing, our main thrust is still with coaching and scouting but, in terms of the administration function, we don't have the luxury of hiring five or six people.
"Generally, though, I wouldn't say the S-League is in a crisis.
"I think clubs are better run than before and the S-League is still a platform for the development of our local footballers."
The irony for Duric is that over the last two or three seasons, the quality of football in the S-League has improved.
He said: "To be honest, we play good football in the S-League. There's not much difference with the Malaysian Super League. It's tighter at the top and there are no easy games.
"For the players, it is sad because we are entertainment people. Would any singer like to perform in front of an empty hall?
"Maybe we need to do more outreach in the communities around the clubs, maybe we need to learn more from successful foreign leagues.
"The S-League is not in good shape, but we shouldn't give up. We should take pride in it because this is our league, and this is for the next generation of footballers.
"I hope it will still be around when my son grows up because it is my dream that one day, he will play in the S-League."
