Tokyo - After making headlines with their win against European champs Serbia, the Thai women's volleyball team now have a higher target - to stun hosts Japan.
This evening, Thailand - sixth at last year's FIVB World Grand Prix - will go up against powerhouse Japan in the last match of the day.
Last year's clashes between Thailand and Japan saw the Thais lose three in succession including two disappointing defeats in the Asian Championship in Taiwan. But Thailand beat Japan twice in 2010, conquering them at the high-profile Guangzhou Asian Games.
To prepare for the host's challenge, the Thai players yesterday met to cook up a plan of strategy with their coaches.
Thai head coach Kiattipong Radchatagriengkai told his players, "Our victory over Serbia was very significant because we now have our first three points in a tough tournament. We need more to make sure we avoid the danger of missing the cut for the Olympics.
"Despite the win, we cannot afford to underestimate any team. We have to think about the despair we suffered four years ago when we failed to make the cut for the Beijing Olympics."
Addressing players directly, Kiattipong said: "Do you want to see history repeat itself again? Playing Japan won't be easy, because you not only play them, but also a large crowd of their fans packing the competition venue. You have to be smart enough to read their game. At the same time, you have to reduce your unforced errors and find the space to express your offensive and defensive skills.
"To match the Japanese tactics, you have to make enough blocks while keeping the killer instinct in attack. If you can do that, beating Japan will not be an impossible mission," Kittipong concluded.
All eight participating teams including two-time world champions Russia, Serbia, Cuba and world No 12 Thailand enjoyed a rest day at the World Olympic Qualification Tournament yesterday. The single round-robin competition resumes today, with Taiwan taking on Peru, Cuba challenging Russia, Serbia facing South Korea and Thailand confronting hosts Japan.
