LONDON - Lukas Rosol, the shock Wimbledon conqueror of Rafael Nadal, returned to familiar anonymity on Saturday when Germany's Philipp Kohlschreiber sent him crashing out in the third round.
Czech world 100 Rosol had caused one of the greatest upsets in the history of the sport when he beat world number two Nadal in five sets in the second round under the Centre Court roof on Thursday.
But out on Court 12, normal service was resumed as German 27th seed Kohlschreiber, who had also beaten Nadal on grass at Halle two weeks ago, eased to a 6-2, 6-3, 7-6 (8/6) victory and a first appearance in the fourth round. Kohlschreiber, who claimed victory on a fourth match point, will tackle American qualifier Brian Baker for a place in the quarter-finals.
Baker's fairytale return hit a new high when he enjoyed a 6-4, 4-6, 6-1, 6-3 victory over France's Benoit Paire.
Baker lost six years of his career to an assortment of injuries that left him needing five different operations on a hernia, left and right hips and right elbow.
The 27-year-old, who started the year ranked 458, will rise to at least 78 after his performances at Wimbledon.
"It's been unreal," said Baker, who took a job as a college tennis coach to maintain his feel for the sport during his lengthy lay-off.
"On court I still have nerves when you know what's on the table and what you have accomplished. It's crazy what's been going on."
Defending women's champion Petra Kvitova wasted little time moving into fourth round as the Czech took just 53 minutes to crush America's Varvara Lepchenko 6-1, 6-0.
Kvitova has yet to drop a set in defence of the title she won with a shock triumph against Maria Sharapova and Lepchenko, ranked 53rd, had no answer to the world number four's power.
The 22-year-old, who has lost just 13 games in her three matches, blasted 15 winners and forced the out-classed Lepchenko to make 38 errors in a brutal demolition on Court One.
Kvitova, seeded fourth, will play former French Open champion Francesca Schiavone for a place in the quarter-finals.
"I'm so happy that I played well and I'm glad that I made so few unforced errors."
Kazakh wildcard Yaroslava Shvedova defeated Italian 10th seed and French Open runner-up Sara Errani 6-0, 6-4 to reach the last 16 for the first time.
Shvedova also made history by winning all 24 points in the opener to achieve a rare Golden Set.
Former world number one Ana Ivanovic, the 14th seed, reached the last 16, coming from behind to clinch a 3-6, 6-3, 6-4 win against Germany's Julia Goerges.
Ivanovic will play second seed Victoria Azarenka or Slovakian qualifier Jana Cepelova for a place in the quarter-finals.
Also going through was Austria's Tamira Paszek, the first round conqueror of former number one Caroline Wozniacki.
Paszek enjoyed a 2-6, 7-6 (7/4), 7-5 win over Belgium's Yanina Wickmayer and will face either Croatia's Mirjana Lucic or Italian 21st seed Roberta Vinci for a place in the quarter-finals.
Later Saturday, four-time women's champion Serena Williams faces China's Zheng Jie while British fourth seed Andy Murray takes on Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus.
