The special One was not quite himself Friday morning at the Singapore Sports School.
Real Madrid coach Jose Mourinho seemed more like The Weary One when he met youngsters from the National Football Academy (NFA) and Sports School.
Dressed casually in a dark blue polo tee and jeans, the 49-year-old looked tired as he went for a quick tour of the school's Heritage Centre before a question-and-answer session with a group of about 50 players.
Maybe it was down to the packed schedule drawn up for Mourinho since he arrived here on Thursday as a guest of the Singapore Olympic Foundation-Peter Lim Scholarship programme, but when you are a superstar manager, it goes with the territory.
The Portuguese apparently headed straight to the airport to catch a flight to Kuala Lumpur after his 30-minute appareance at the Sports School.
It may have been a brief visit, but the players who met and mingled with the managerial maestro were clearly starstruck.
National Under-16 captain Adam Swandi, who presented Mourinho with an NFA jersey, said: "I was quite nervous at that point. I mean, it's Mourinho - everyone knows him as a strict coach. But as it turned out, he was quite friendly."
Like Frank Lampard, Javier Zanetti, Xabi Alonso and Cristiano Ronaldo, Adam received the trademark fatherly pat on the back of the head from Mourinho, and the teenager was thrilled at the gesture.
"When he did that, it just made me feel ... I don't even know how to describe it. Really good."
Adam's teammate, defender R Aaravin, added: "When we took the team photo with him (Mourinho), I was standing right next to him.
"To be so close to someone so well known in football, just the feeling gave me goosebumps."
While Mourinho was able to answer only a handful of questions, he stressed to the youngsters how important it was for them to have passion for the game.
Asked by one of the players who inspired him, the former Chelsea manager said: "My inspiration when I was young was my passion for the game, which was more than this player or that.
"Like all of you, I was in love with the sport. And everything I did as a young boy was moved by that love for football."
Despite the constant glare of the spotlight, Mourinho, somewhat surprisingly, insisted coaches always had to take the backseat.
"First of all, I want to say I like it that the coaches are in the back row," he said, when he fielded a question by the NFA coaches, who were all at the back of the room.
"Because that's where we have to be. It is sometimes easy to forget that the most important people are the players.
"We are in the sport to help the players and our target is to make them better. Sometimes coaches forget that. I'm pleased you agree with the feeling."
