NEWCASTLE - Alan Pardew admitted Newcastle were daring to dream of Champions League qualification after an emphatic win over Stoke lifted the Magpies into fourth place.
French midfielder Yohan Cabaye scored twice and created another for Papiss Cisse in a comprehensive 3-0 win which also saw another virtuoso display from winger Hatem Ben-Arfa.
The victory - Newcastle's sixth straight win - means Pardew's side have to be regarded as genuine contenders for a top-four finish despite a run-in that features games against Manchester City, Chelsea, Wigan and Everton.
With Tottenham losing 1-0 at Queens Park Rangers, Newcastle now have sole possession of fourth spot, three points of clear of Spurs in fifth.
"The Champions League is still a possibility and we are not hiding from that," said Pardew, who will be a keen observer of Everton's match at Manchester United on Sunday.
"If Everton don't win, that's qualification for the Europa League for us and and that's a big, big achievement for this club.
"But we haven't lost sight of the fact that the city feels there's a chance to do something really special. With four games left, we can still get into the Champions League. We will try to win them all and see where that takes us.
"We've got momentum and that's a dangerous tool to have in your locker. We are playing with confidence and got ourselves in a fantastic position, perhaps better than we thought we might be in."
Stoke, who were one of England's Europa league's representatives this season, were outclasssed for the entire 90 minutes, with Cabaye and Cheick Tiote dominating the midfield.
"Quality was the key. We had our normal work ethic, but a lot of quality from Cabaye, Cisse, Ba and Ben Arfa. They were a problem for Stoke," said Pardew.
"The one Cabaye made was better than the two he scored. How he saw that pass I don't know. It was exquisite, one of the passes of the season.
"We got some good performances and it's been a great season for us. We've kept targeting the last ten games to be in and around it and now there's only four left."
The match was effectively settled inside the first 18 minutes. Cabaye headed in the first goal from close range after Cisse headed Ben Arfa's cross against the bar, then Cisse took advantage of that pass which so delighted Pardew.
Cabaye added another in the 53 minutes with a composed finish, while Stoke never threatened to find a way past a Newcastle defence that has not conceded a goal in 398 minutes.
"That's four clean sheets," said Pardew. "We've got some stability at the back where Mike Williamson was outstanding looking after a very good striker in Peter Crouch.
"There is real confidence in the group. No matter what happens, we can deal with it."
Tony Pulis, the Stoke manager, suggested the difference between the two teams was the way Newcastle accepted their chances, but the reality was that they were outclassed by a team he believes can finish in the top four.
"Newcastle have lots of momentum. They have goals in them and can be very confident and assured in the last few games because they will score goals," he said.
