No award had been this certain since Meryl Streep threw on a wig, lowered her voice and called herself Margaret Thatcher.
Still, when Robin van Persie collected his Professional Footballers' Association (PFA) Player of the Year trophy yesterday morning (Singapore time), Arsene Wenger might have been forgiven for being less generous in his applause.
Like a moth to a flame, that shiny bauble in van Persie's arms will only draw them closer.
The vultures are circling. They want his signature and will stop at nothing to get it.
The Arsenal striker's silverware served only to underscore how indispensable he is to the Gunners' cause and how desirable he is to every attractive suitor with a fat wallet.
Barcelona will surely be at the front of the queue, waving a Qatar-endorsed cheque book under the noses of the money men at Emirates Stadium.
Any one of van Persie's 27 Premier League goals would have been priceless against Real Madrid in the Clasico.
Instead the Catalans called upon a kid.
Cristian Tello, just 20, may have the makings of a fine striker, but he's still a boy.
Men are needed to conquer Clasicos.
Men like van Persie.
Real Madrid's attacking department is a busy hive of productivity at the moment - Mesut Oezil, Angel Di Maria, Karim Benzema and Cristiano Ronaldo all started against Barcelona - but the lone striking role perfected by van Persie is a trademark of all Jose Mourinho's teams.
Back in the English Premier League, Mario Balotelli's bratty belligerence and Carlos Tevez's insufferable selfishness contrast sharply with van Persie's laidback, longstanding loyalty to both club and coach.
In truth, Manchester's moneybags would be lucky to have him.
So would Chelsea.
Van Persie is well aware that he hasn't held anything silver since Arsenal's FA Cup win in 2005, when he was a substitute.
With 27 EPL goals - his highest tally for the Gunners - the PFA award is welcome recognition for his peerless productivity in the penalty box.
But the prize may also be a sombre swansong.
Unless the purse strings at Arsenal are suddenly loosened with a degree not witnessed since Scrooge on Christmas Day, another labour-intensive campaign awaits the lone gunman.
Even the Lone Ranger needed Tonto and, without the right reinforcements, van Persie could be tempted to trot off into the sunset in search of a new partner.
Wenger wants the matter resolved before Euro 2012 - where footballers will gather like mother hens to bitch about the grass always being greener on other pitches - and is determined to retain van Persie for at least another season.
His optimism is laudable, but it's a risky move.
He could end up with everything (other brand names may be encouraged to sign and play alongside van Persie) or finish with nothing (his favoured striker completes his contract next season and leaves for free).
Despite his refusal to break the club's proud salary structure, Wenger is no fool.
Preparations are already in place for the worst-case scenario.
Germany's prolific striker Lukas Podolski should be on his way to north London.
A deal for &pound;10.9 million ($22m) has reportedly already been brokered between Arsenal and Cologne.
While Alan Pardew must curse the day Newcastle United signed off on a &pound;7.5m release clause in Demba Ba's contract.
Pardew is currently dashing around his dressing room trying to block all the club's exits, desperately trying to convince his Magpies that Newcastle are now a bigger club.
Maybe so, but they're not bigger than Arsenal.
If those continental vultures soar across the English Channel to pick off van Persie, Wenger will be forced to indulge in his own feeding frenzy.
Of course, life would be much easier if the club broke the bank, just a little, to accommodate the reasonable financial demands of an in-demand striker who turns 29 next season.
Arsenal are one of the few English Premier League clubs to turn a profit (&pound;31.4m), but players do not take a bank statement on a lap of honour.
Nor do they take it down from a shelf and show it off to grandchildren when reminiscing about their playing days.
Van Persie wants more than just a lot of zeroes.
He wants a legacy. He wants trophies.
Whoever raises their hand highest and promises to achieve all three will get the nod from the Dutchman.
Wenger must take note.
His striker's prize was not only a reward; it was a warning.
The Player of the Year award was more than an acknowledgement of van Persie's recent past.
It also signalled the start of the auction to buy his future.
Roll of Honour PFA Player of the Year: Robin van Persie (Arsenal, above) PFA Young Player of the Year: Kyle Walker (Tottenham) PFA Premier League Team of the Year: Joe Hart (Man City); Kyle Walker (Tottenham), Vincent Kompany (Man City), Fabricio Coloccini (Newcastle), Leighton Baines (Everton); David Silva (Man City), Yaya Toure (Man City), Scott Parker (Tottenham), Gareth Bale (Tottenham); Robin van Persie (Arsenal), Wayne Rooney (Man United)
