SINGAPORE - The last thing on Fadli Kamis' mind was being selected for the next round of Nike's The Chance.
But the budding defender certainly got more than he bargained for on Saturday - he was one of three trialists who received their invitations from Manchester United legend Denis Irwin, no less.
Fadli, 19, was in shock as he meekly made his way through the 500-strong contingent of participants, who had turned up for Nike's annual worldwide talent development programme.
Said the full-time national serviceman: "I did not expect to be picked today.
"All that I was thinking of was coming down for some football fun with my friends.
"It was also a great honour to have shaken hands with a Manchester United legend."
Fadli certainly did enough to earn a coveted invitation from Irwin, who was a guest scout at the first day of The Chance's open trials, held at the Ministry of Education's Physical &amp; Sports Education Branch at Evans Road.
Twenty-nine other players were also picked for The Chance Boot Camp next month by a coaching panel which includes The Chance head coach V Sundramoothy and former national captain Aide Iskandar.
Said Irwin: "I've only had a short while to watch the players, but I've already seen a few decent ones. "It's also great to see so many participants turning up today. I believe in the grassroots of football, the more locals interested in playing, the better it is for Singapore."
He also lauded the initiative for providing an avenue for players to obtain recognition.
"It gives the younger ones a fantastic opportunity for a breakthrough to pro football.
"For the older players, it's like a second chance for them.
"Like myself, I was released from Leeds United at 20, but I went on (to join Man United after that).
"It's never too late," he said.
Irwin also had a few words of advice for the participants: "Never stop enjoying the game.
"Also make sure you keep practising because all you need is a ball."
It was a sentiment that was shared by The Chance's head coach Sundram.
"If you want to make it up the ladder, you have to have your foundation of skills polished first.
"The players we selected today displayed good technique, ball control and awareness.
"It's a bit early to say if they could go all the way, but with hard work, why not?"
Those interested can still walk in and register at The Chance's open trials, which continues today. They need to be between the ages of 16 and 24 from March 1.
The event will be held from 8am till 6pm at the same venue, where another 70 slots are up for grabs for The Chance Boot Camp in Singapore next month.
From there, they will pick five players for the South-east Asia regional final in Jakarta, Indonesia, in June.
For those who missed the trials, you can still sign up at www.facebook.com/NikeFootballSG
