SINGAPORE - It was a change that was not unexpected among Singapore's paddlers.
The International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) announced on Thursday that Chinese women's world No. 1 Ding Ning will replace compatriot Guo Yan in the singles event at the London Olympics.
The left-handed paddler will join teammates Li Xiaoxia and Guo Yue, the latter of whom qualified for the team event, in the table tennis giants' bid to retain both the singles and team golds at the quadrennial Games.
With the new rules limiting singles entries to two per country, Li and Guo Yan qualified by topping the world rankings in June last year.
According to an article on the ITTF website, the change is attributed to an injury to Guo Yan, although no details were given.
Singapore Table Tennis Association's high performance manager Eddy Tay was not surprised at the switch though.
He said: "It was expected since they fielded the same line-up at the world championships, which was the last major tournament before the Olympics.
"After the final, the Chinese press also asked (Chinese coach) Shi Zhihao if that was going to be the Olympic line-up, but his answers were generic."
Ding Ning, Li and Guo Yue beat Singapore 3-0 in the World Team Table Tennis Championships in Dortmund in end-March to regain the Marcel Corbillon Cup, won by the Republic in 2010.
The change in top seeds China's Olympic team means they now have two southpaws in the line-up - Ding Ning and Guo Yue - a team composition that mirrors that of the 2008 gold-winning trio of Wang Nan, Zhang Yining and Guo Yue.
While Singapore's table tennis officials have previously acknowledged their paddlers' lack of familiarity when facing southpaws, STTA's Tay said there has not been any change to the Singaporeans' preparations for London.
He said: "We have gotten a left-handed sparring partner since before the world championships, and another one will join us during our centralised training just before the Games.
"But we are preparing for every country's players - Japan's Kasumi Ishikawa is also left-handed, for example - and every style; we also have sparring partners who are choppers."
Meanwhile, Singapore's new No. 1 women's player Wang Yuegu will compete in the upcoming Korea and China Opens, her first tournaments since the world meet in late March.
The world No. 7 replaced Feng Tianwei, who slid from fifth to ninth after the Dortmund meet, as the Republic's top woman player.
Feng is eighth in the latest ITTF rankings, along with Olympic-bound Li Jiawei, now in 13th place. Yuegu was rested for the Spanish and Chile Opens due to a recurrence of an elbow injury.
Tay said: "Yuegu is competition-fit now, but we will have to assess her again after the two tournaments as to whether she can take part in the remaining two (Japan and Brazil Opens) or not."
"We are preparing for every country's players - Japan's Kasumi Ishikawa is also left-handed, for example - and every style; we also have sparring partners who are choppers." - Singapore Table Tennis Association's high performance manager Eddy Tay
sayheng@sph.com.sg
