Mohd Noor Ali's football career has now come full circle.
After winning two trophies as a player at Geylang United, the 36-year-old is back at his old hunting ground - as an assistant coach.
Noor, who played for the Eagles for six seasons, was appointed by the club last week to assist head coach V Kanan on a part-time basis.
"It's great to be back here," said Noor before his first training session with the club at the Bedok Stadium yesterday.
"I spent six seasons as a player here and won the league title (2001) and the Singapore Cup (2009). So, Geylang are definitely special to me.
"It's also great to work with Kanan, whom I've known for the past 12 years. He's a very dedicated coach and I know I can learn a lot from him."
Noor, who began his career in Tampines and won two league titles with SAFFC (2006, 2007), played for Hougang in the S-League last year.
He left the club at the end of last season to sign for the Sembawang Soccer Academy (SSA).
After the SSA failed to pay his wages, he joined National Football League (NFL) Division Two club Admiralty FC as a player-coach in February.
Noor said he will continue to coach Admiralty, whom he has led to five wins in five games so far.
Said Geylang team manager Lim Tong Hai: "We understand Noor has made a commitment to Admiralty for their season (which runs until September).
"We're willing to make a compromise and, hopefully, it works out well.
"We wanted Noor to assist Kanan for a couple of reasons. One, he's a former Geylang player and we always look to give our old players coaching opportunities.
"Also, he's an enthusiastic young coach who knows the league. Having played with him before, I know him to be a real daredevil. He never pulls his punches.
"That can be something positive to have in a coach - he can inspire and fire up the team."
Noor said he will manage Admiralty during their weekend matches, but leave midweek training sessions to assistant Tan Sio Beng.
He said: "I really want to thank Admiralty chairman Don (Francis Donahue Marcel) for giving me my first real coaching opportunity.
"As much as I can, I will help them achieve promotion to Division One. The offer from Geylang was too important to refuse, as I intend to be an S-League head coach one day."
Noor plans to take his AFC A coaching licence in October, which would qualify him to coach Geylang's prime league squad.
But the former national winger seems set to hang up his boots, despite a request from Kanan that he join Geylang as a player-coach.
"I've played 17 years in the S-League. I think that's more than enough," Noor said.
"I know I can pass the Beep Test; I passed it easily last year. But I just want to move into my coaching career now.
"Of course, you never know. If we don't improve on our league position after June, I might just lace up my boots one last time."
