SINGAPORE - Singapore swimmer Teo Zhen Ren had an eventful Day Four as he broke the national record for the 1500m freestyle which he held previously on his way to the silver for the event.
Despite breaking the national record of 15:43.63 with his timing of 15:43.08 on the fourth day of the swimming events of the SEA Swimming Championships 2012, Teo was disappointed with his showing. He said: "I expected to improve much more, and I felt good leading up to the race. Even during the race, I thought everything was going to plan.
"Something went wrong with my pacing, and I'd have to look at the videos to find out more. I think I should perhaps have gone out harder and faster at the start."
His time is classified as an Olympic "B" (OGB) timing.
Meanwhile, his compatriot Amanda Lim won the women's 200m freestyle with her personal best timing of 2:02.76 in front of Deputy Prime Minister and President of Singapore National Olympic Council Mr. Teo Chee Hean.
Lim, who was injury-free leading up the competition, said: "I'm very happy with my time, as it was my first personal best timing in two years. I'm looking forward to the 50m freestyle tomorrow.
"I feel fresh, good to go, and I will try to post my fastest time and try to be one of Singapore's fastest."
Malaysia had a good day, winning gold in three of the seven individual events, in the process posting three Olympic "B" (OGB) timings.
Siow Yi Ting, 27, was the first to Malaysian to shine. The veteran of three Olympic Games (Sydney, Athens, Beijing) powered to first place with a timing of 2 min and 31.75 seconds (2:31.75), more than two seconds ahead of second-place Salubluek Chavunnooch (2:34.09).
Siow, who took a one-year break from swimming in 2010, was pleased with her victory, despite it being slower than her timing of 2:31.23 clocked at the Malaysia national age group meet. She said: "I did OK, even though I didn't hit my target of going below 2:31.00.
"In the past, I would have been more disappointed, but nowadays I try not to take it too hard."
When asked what advice she has for swimmers aspiring to go to the Olympics, she said: "Don't be nervous, try to have a good time, and have fun. Aim to do your best, and make your country proud."
Malaysia's Yap See Tuan was up next. The 22-year-old won the 200m breaststroke with a timing of 2:15.96, beating rivals Dasuki Muhammad Idham and Singaporean Khoo Chien Yin Lionel.
Yap, who didn't expect to clinch the gold medal, said: "It's hard to say [who will win], as the three of us always have very close timings."
The Pahang native added: "I'm happy, as it is my first gold medal of the competition, and also more than a second faster than my personal best timing, which was what I aimed for."
Completing Malaysia's golden trinity was Yeap Soon Choy Kevin. The 22-year-old beat rival Teo Zhen Ren of Singapore in the arduous men's 1500m freestyle, clinching first place with a timing of 15:35.02.
Yeap was critical of his performance though. He said: "I'm not too happy. It's not my personal best timing. I started too fast, or I could have clocked a better timing."
He was pleased with his team's overall performance though.
"We aimed to make the Olympic B mark, and all of us made it, so in terms of that it was a very good performance," said Yeap, who specialises in long-distance events.
In other events, Triady Fauzi of Indonesia took the men's 50m gold while Glenn Victor of Indonesia won the men's 50m butterfly
15-year-old Vietnam hotshot Nguyen Thi Anh Vien continued her winning spree with a victory in the women's 50m backstroke. Singapore women's medley relay team, surprisingly anchored by Tao Li, came in first. Indonesia and Malaysia, who came in second and third respectively, were disqualified for early take-off.
The action continues tomorrow at 9.00am (heats) followed by the finals at 6.00pm at the Singapore Sports School. Tickets are on sale at $5 each.
Fans can catch the action of the swimming events live on Starhub SuperSports ARENA (Channel 201) in Singapore and other Southeast Asia countries or watch live streaming of the swimming events from 13 to 17 June on Ustream, and follow the rest of the action on SEA Swimming Championships' social media platforms.
