It's difficult to understand what keeps Leander Paes going. The Indian tennis star turns 39 next month. He is still playing and winning when most players his age have long retired. It's not supreme ability. Experts will tell you he is no extraordinary talent.
His backhand is weak. The ground strokes not solid. His serve is mediocre too.
What then works for Paes? Some say it's the agility. The cheetah-like reflexes at the net. The energy. But at 39, surely these attributes are on the wane. He is not as fleet-footed anymore.
Sluggishness is creeping into his game. The struggles with the serve have become more severe.
Yet, he continues to win.
Last month, Paes became only the 24th player in the ATP tour history to win 50 doubles titles after he won the Miami Masters with his Czech partner Radek Stepanek. Earlier this year, he won his 13th Grand Slam title, clinching the Australian Open doubles title and with it completed a career slam.
This summer, he is likely to be a medal hopeful for India at the London Olympics. It could be the desire to win one more Olympic medal that keeps him going.
Paes, whose current doubles world ranking is 7th, will qualify directly for the London games if his ranking remains 10th or better on the June 11 deadline.
Yet, it's baffling. This effectiveness, this longevity, this success of Paes. How do you explain it? Andre Agassi couldn't. In his autobiography Open, Agassi was as much amused as perplexed when he described the singles semi-final he played against Paes at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics.
He wrote: "He's a flying jumping bean, a bundle of hyperkinetic energy, with the tour's quickest hands. Still, he's never learned to hit a tennis ball. He hits off-speed, hacks, chips, lobs - he's the Brad of Bombay. Then, behind all his junk, he flies to the net and covers so well that it all seems to work. After an hour you feel as if he hasn't hit one ball cleanly - and yet he's beating you soundly."
Paes lost that match in straight sets, but went on to beat Fernando Meligeni of Brazil to win the bronze medal, India's first individual Olympic medal since 1952.
The medal is the highlight of his average singles career, which did have occasional dazzling moments, especially when he played for India in the Davis Cup. Matches that he won on cheek, on desire, flinging himself on court, putting his body on the line as if pain didn't exist.
Paes knew of his limitations in singles. He tried hard to erase them, through coaches, hours of practice. Through brave, almost manic play. But he couldn't.
You would think that after almost 20 years in the sport, and 13 Grand Slam titles later, his failure in singles wouldn't matter anymore. But it does.
You can tell, by the irritation in his otherwise friendly voice, when tabla! questions him about it.
"I have nothing to prove to anyone. My Davis Cup record is impeccable. I have won Grand Slams on every surface, in every condition, against some of the best players the world has ever seen," he says peevishly.
It's true. But it's also true that doubles, less intense than singles, suited him better.
Some called it the easier choice, a true but unfair assessment. For you have to still win. A total of seven matches in two gruelling weeks to win a slam. And many, many more for a career record of 50 titles.
Former India Davis Cup captain Jaidip Mukerjea, who was India's coach at the Atlanta Olympics, says Paes learnt to make the most of his strengths.
He tells tabla!: "I've known him since he was eight years old. He would come on a bicycle, ridden by a helper of the family, to play at Calcutta's famous South Club. He was competitive then, and loved to dominate. And he hasn't changed much. His style is tailor-made for doubles, but it's as much mental as it is physical."
Paes found the perfect doubles partner in Mahesh Bhupathi, his antithesis both as a person and in style of play, with whom he won three Grand Slam titles.
Many more could have been won, had the duo stuck together. Their relationship didn't survive. Reunions were attempted, after public feuds, but didn't last long enough to make them unbeatable once again.
India's Davis Cup coach S.P. Misra says the friction between the two affected them as much as it affected India. "We would have had an Olympic medal in doubles if they'd stayed together. And of course many more Grand Slams," he tells tabla!.
Mukerjea says people around them were responsible for the break-up as much as the players. He, however, confesses that Paes can be difficult at times. "He is emotional, wears his heart on his sleeve. Likes to take the lead most of the time. He loves centre stage."
Over the years, Paes has been accused of being egotistical, dominating. Even unfair to his teammates, especially when he was India's Davis Cup captain in 2008.
Bhupathi, Rohan Bopanna, Prakash Amritraj and Karan Rastogi wrote to the All India Tennis Association that they did not want Paes to captain the team. They were upset that he had criticised them publicly and "undermined them by playing matches they could have won".
When on court, he is also criticised for being overly theatrical. Over-the-top, sometimes embarrassing celebrations, maudlin displays of patriotism, loud, war cry-like shrieks, unnecessarily long pauses - all this he brings to court. He gets misty-eyed easily, which though not a criticism is an indicator of how dramatic everything around him gets.
Despite all this, Paes has partnered successfully with some of the best players in international tennis. He won two mixed doubles Grand Slam titles with Martina Navratilova, one of the greatest women players the game has seen.
He claims his success is proof that adaptability is his biggest virtue and that he is a team-man.
He says: "I am adaptable by nature. Being the dominant or the passive partner, as need be. It makes it easier to form winning partnerships. When I played with Martina, I was happy to play second fiddle and let her take the lead. She is a legend, the best in the game. And she likes to be in charge. With others, it works differently. It's about understanding your partners' personality and style of play and adapting yourself to it."
Martina herself called Paes a legend and was cheering from his box when he won the Australian Open this year. After his win, he blew her a kiss.
It's easy to like him. Not many Indian sports stars can stir up your emotions like he does.
Sometimes through the sheer fight he puts up for his country. Sometimes through running around the court teary-eyed, with an Indian flag draped around him.
He can annoy you with his clownish behaviour, more suited for Bollywood films which you will see him in this year. But you can be sure, if he plays for India in the London Olympics this year, despite the limitations, despite the age, he'll fight, he'll strain himself to breaking point - and he will cry.
ankitav@sph.com.sg
