LES ARCS, France- Eric Barone admits he is an attention seeker and is looking at joining a circus, but before that he is keen to set a new mountain bike world speed record for cycling down vertiginous mountain slopes on snow.
Barone, who is in his 50's, has had a habit of defying the odds ever since he was afflicted with a serious knee ailment aged 10 which affected his growth.
However, an operation allowed this son of modest background - his father was a gutter-maker and mother a secretary - to contemplate a sporting career.
On Monday, he saw his attempt to better his own world record - 222km per hour set 12 years ago - here come to grief as he recorded a best of 158kph, attired as usual in his polyurethane body-hugging strip and a helmet commonly used by time-triallers.
"I am a little bit disappointed, but I remain optimistic," said Barone.
"I will try again whatever happens in better conditions with a harder surface of snow."
It is a miracle that this redoubtable and eccentric Frenchman has had the chance to beat his record at all, given the dreadful injuries he suffered in Nicaragua in 2002 while travelling at more than 170kph.
His crash - in which he was propelled onto rocks when his bike broke as he sped down a volcano - has been viewed by thousands on the internet.
Lucky to emerge alive, he nevertheless suffered six broken ribs and a broken femur, two severely grazed shoulders and several pulled muscles, while his face was left black and blue.
Barone, who had mistakenly thought that he was unbreakable, went through four years of hell with several operations and countless hours of physiotherapy before finally rediscovering a certain 'balance'.
However, he admits that it took him some time to recover his confidence.
So much so that he didn't touch a bike for eight years and even had trouble in conducting conversations with potential clients at the estate agent where he worked in Nicaragua.
"I said to myself 'I will stop everything'. My priorities have changed: I am married and I have two children," said the keen follower of feng shui, who subsequently had a change of mind and got back on the bike.
"This new attempt was a personal challenge for me to get better in the head and to return to what I was before the accident," added Barone, who splits his time between Nicaragua, where his Nicaraguan wife lives with their two children, and his French base of Oyonnax near the Alps.
Barone, who was crowned both European and world mountain-bike downhill champion when he was 35, admits he is not sure what keeps him pushing the limits.
"I don't know if I am looking to take revenge on life, but like everybody I need to be recognised and keep myself in the limelight," he said.
That love of the limelight led him to be hired as a stunt man in several films, notably the 1998 French hit 'Taxi' where he performed a mind-boggling stunt in doing a backflip over the handlebars of a scooter.
"That was a world first," he says proudly.
