SINGAPORE - The AFC Champions League's hard-fought group stage is set for a thrilling climax this week with most knockout places still up for grabs.
In Group H, the 2011 champions of Japan, South Korea, China and Thailand are all in the running for the two places in the round of 16.
South Korean title-holders Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors host Japan's Kashiwa Reysol looking to stay top on Tuesday, while China's Guangzhou Evergrande play Thai outfit Buriram United.
Just three points separate all four clubs.
Jeonbuk need only a point to go through, while second-placed Guangzhou need a win to be certain.
The well-heeled Chinese team this month slapped a nine-match ban on record signing Dario Conca for criticising coach Lee Jang-Soo.
And Buriram striker Franck Ohandza warned Guangzhou would not have an easy ride in provincial Thailand against this year's surprise package, backed by their fanatical home supporters.
"We know that we are very strong at home," Ohandza said, according to a press release by tournament organisers. "People love football in Thailand. They really inspire us, they love us, and we love them."
Similarly in Group G, just a point separates Seongnam Ilhwa Chunma, Nagoya Grampus and Central Coast Mariners, who are all still in contention.
Australia's Mariners, making a late charge to qualify for the knockout phase, will be keeping a close eye on Nagoya's Socceroos striker Josh Kennedy in Tuesday's crunch away game.
"He's a big guy, a tall guy so he's always dangerous inside the box. (But) we know he doesn't have a lot of pace so he's not going to beat us in that," defender Patrick Zwaanswijk told the Football Federation Australia website.
"The only thing where he can beat us is in the 18-yard-box, and that's where we have to keep him away from. If we play as well here (as we did in the home game) then I think we can beat them."
Among the teams playing on Wednesday, Australia's Adelaide United are already through, leaving South Korea's Pohang Steelers and Uzbek team Bunyodkor to fight it out for the second spot in Group E.
Already qualified FC Tokyo and Ulsan Hyundai play each other for the leadership of Group F, which crucially carries home advantage for the last-16 matches later this month.
In Group D, Iran's Piroozi can guarantee qualification by beating Al Shabab Al Arabi in Dubai, while Saudi Arabia's Al Hilal and Qatar's Al Gharafa are both still in the running as they meet in Riyadh.
Group A's Esteghlal and Al Rayyan are looking to join Emirati side and runaway leaders Al Jazira of Abu Dhabi in the knock-out phase, while in Group B both Baniyas and Pakhtakor can follow two-time winners Al Ittihad into the last 16.
Iran's Sepahan and Saudi team Al Ahli are both through in Group C but they will meet at Foolad Shahr Stadium with the top spot at stake.
