Tony Parker and the San Antonio Spurs have a point to prove this season.
After all, they've been written off in some quarters as an ageing team, with key players such as Parker (29), Manu Ginobili (34) and Tim Duncan (35) staring at the sunset years of their playing careers.
Also, they crashed out in the first round of the Play-offs last season to Memphis Grizzlies, despite being the top seeds in the Western Conference.
This year, they've again secured the conference's top seeds in the Play-offs, after beating the Portland Trail Blazers 124-89 Tuesday morning (Singapore time)
On last year's defeat, the point guard said during a teleconference yesterday: "It gave us a lot of frustrations. We were not happy with our performances and were all very disappointed about the loss.
"That gave us the motivation to do better this year.
"We have to prove that (we are not weak top seeds this year). When you're the top seeds, people will come after you.
"We just have to prove that we can do in the Play-offs what we have been doing in the regular season."
But the road towards redemption has not been easy.
The four-time NBA champions had started on a renewal process early this season with the signings of players such as Danny Green and Kawhi Leonard, and lost Ginobili early in the season through injury.
Parker mused: "Pop (Gregg Popovich) is the best coach in NBA this season and should win the Coach of the Year. He's been unbelievable with the adjustments we've had to make this season."
While defence had been the hallmark of the previous championship-winning teams (2003, 2005, 2007) Parker featured in, the Spurs changed tack this season.
He said: "The big difference with this year's team is that we're more offensive-minded.
"The first three times I've won with the team, we were very good defensively. This year we've improved offensively, but are not as good defensively.
"It's been effective so far and I hope it works during the Play-offs."
The Frenchman has been thrust into a bigger leadership role with the new attacking emphasis as well.
He said: "Timmy (Tim Duncan) and Manu are getting older, so I was going to have more responsibilities this year.
"When Manu got hurt early in the season, the process was accelerated and Pop relied on me to get into my 'attack' mode most of the time and be aggressive.
"I feel energised and happy with this added responsibility, because I want to play in a team that try to win championships."
"The responsibilities make me want to perform and not disappoint my teammates," added 1.88m-tall player.
He counts the Oklahoma City Thunder, Los Angeles Lakers, Miami Heat and the Chicago Bulls as their main threats to his fourth championship ring, but sounds a word of caution to the other teams.
He said: "Our whole goal is to be healthy now. We've had a great season where we've had injuries.
"Everyone is healthy so far and that's why I like our chances. As long as we're healthy and fresh, we have a good chance of making the NBA finals."
