They started off as novices starring in a television commercial for the opening of an indoor skydiving facility back in 2010.
But that experience got primary-school girls Kyra Poh, 10, and Choo Yixuan, 11, so hooked that they began training in earnest at the skydiving simulator, iFly Singapore, in Sentosa.
Come Dec 13-16, the duo will represent Singapore at iFly's first indoor skydiving world championships - the first time a competition of this scale is held in the Asia-Pacific region.
Despite their youth, the Haig Girls' School pupils have already chalked up more than 15 hours of flight time each in the past 11/2 years - proof of their immense dedication, considering one is restricted to only 45 seconds of flight time at each go.
The best friends first met each other in their school's swim team.
They completed a basic training programme in February last year, followed by a six-month- long intermediate training stint.
While they have to juggle their studies and swimming commitments together with their skydiving training, they love the sensation of being in the air too much to give it up.
"This is the only sport where you can fly freely and feel that it's very relaxing and cooling," said Kyra.
Organisers who pumped in half a million dollars to set up the competition are expecting some 400 participants, or around 70 to 80 teams, from countries such as Britain, United States and Australia.
Registration for the competition will open in the second half of the year. Participants will have to pay between $250 and $450 to register, depending on their discipline.
There will be five different disciplines, and Kyra and Yixuan will register for the two-way freefly, where two members perform a 60-second routine.
Mr Lawrence Koh, iFly's managing director, said the competition is part of his vision to make the niche sport more accessible and well-known to the masses.
The former team leader of the Singapore Red Lions Parachuting Display Team hopes to make Singapore the centre of indoor skydiving in the Asia-Pacific region.
He said: "I think we're making good progress. In three to five years time...I think we may get there."
The $25-million facility, which opened in May last year, has attracted over 55,000 visitors so far, and hopes to attract an annual 100,000 visitors within three years.
So, how do the girls feel about their chances in the competition? Both said they were nervous, but hope to get first place.
Said Kyra: "If we practise hard, I'm sure we can overcome the fear and win something for Uncle Lawrence."
