GDYNIA, Poland - Experienced Ireland coach Giovanni Trapattoni admitted on Tuesday that he was contemplating altering his strict 4-4-2 formation that got them to the Euro 2012 championship.
The 73-year-old Italian made the admission after assessing Monday's 0-0 draw with a youthful Hungary side that failed to qualify for the tournament. It would be a huge concession as it would be the first time he has been willing to alter it since taking charge in 2008.
Ireland's central midfield pairing have been found wanting when facing a three man midfield, and despite acknowledging the problem in the past, Trapattoni was reluctant to change his formation.
"I know this problem with lineup," he said. "I have to speak with them about this sacrifice, it's important.
"We have to speak about it, we have to make this consideration with the team. When we played against Russia (in the qualifying campaign), Alan Dzagoev gave us a difficult time, so we... must consider the opportunity.
"In 1977, we (Juventus) won the UEFA Cup and one of our best defenders was our striker. We spent the last 15 minutes in our box, but we won."
Ireland's squad were put through their paces for almost an hour in training, although goalkeeper Shay Given, defender John O'Shea and midfielder Glenn Whelan took no part, with Trapattoni later insisting they were rested, rather than injured.
The trio will return to training on Wednesday, having complained of 'heavy legs' after playing in the rain-soaked Ferenc Puskas stadium on Monday.
Earlier, winger Aiden McGeady had complained about tiredness among some members of the squad due to Trap's punishing training regime, but the Italian rejected the claim, insisting that it was in the Spartak Moscow player's mind.
"I do not think they were tired," Trapattoni said, with a smile, "psychologically maybe they were, but not physically.
"It's not true we make hard training, in this moment the players don't need training, they need rest. It was only a light training session."
Having seen Ireland's Group C opponents holders Spain, Croatia and Italy also struggle in their Euro warm-up games, the Ireland coach said the pressure of competing at a major tournament was impossible to escape.
"The players are beginning to think about the stress of the competition, it is as much a psychological commitment as a physical commitment," said Trapattoni, who guided Italy to the 2002 World Cup finals and the Euro 2004 finals.
"Spain struggled against China (a late winner giving them a 1-0 victory), but we know that in the competition, the first game is always the most important and leading up to that always creates tension."
Ireland have enjoyed a relatively serene buildup to their opening game on Sunday against Croatia, with a 1-0 victory over Bosnia in Dublin, an easy win against a Tuscan select XI during their training camp in northern Italy, and Monday's scoreless draw.
Unlike Spain, Italy and Croatia, they have avoided injuries to key players - the one thing Trapattoni has wished for ahead of the tournament.
Trapattoni also expressed his shock at the warm welcome Ireland received at their Euro 2012 training base where almost 13,000 Polish well-wishers cheered his squad at the Municipal Stadium.
Ireland landed in Gdansk at 2am (0000GMT), having flown from Budapest.
The team met the mayor in the morning and trained at the home of club Arka Gdynia in the early evening, but there were thousands of fans there beforehand, taking advantage of a party atmosphere that included face painting and a Titanic-styled bouncy castle.
"It was a great surprise," admitted Trapattoni.
"I heard that maybe 1-2000 would come, but it was fantastic.
"I think we have to pay our respects back for this kindness we received today."
Euro 2012: Italy determined to prove worth, says Prandelli
KRAKOW, Poland, June 5, 2012 (AFP) - Italy coach Cesare Prandelli says his team are determined to bounce back from their shock 3-0 friendly defeat to Russia and prove they are better than that.
The 2006 world champions are on a run of three straight losses without scoring a single goal.
Against Russia in Zurich on Friday their defending was particularly haphazard and in truth they could have conceded a bucket load.
But Prandelli is sure that performance will prove no more than an unfortunate footnote to a Euro 2012 title tilt.
"After a defeat the players just want to play to show other qualities," said Prandelli.
"They want to show that they have the right determination to be contenders at the Euros.
"That's the spirit we have now, obviously we've analysed our play and we've discovered this team has a great sense of responsibility.
"Where we've proposed a change in system they haven't just shown their availability, they've been enthusiastic.
"This team could even change its tactical system during a game."
Since that humbling by Russia a lot of talk in Italy has centred around the possibility of switching from a back four to a back three.
It is something Italy tried during the latter part of the Russia game and something which worked very well for Italian champions Juventus when they switched formations mid-season.
The problem is that Italy are almost certain to be wthout Juve centre-back Andrea Barzagli meaning that if Prandelli does switch to a back three, he will have to select Roma midfielder Daniele De Rossi alongside Leonardo Bonucci and Giorgio Chiellini.
Italy's preparations have been interrupted by several injury worries with Chiellini missing the Russia friendly but Prandelli says his squad are ready to cover.
"All 23 need to feel ready because unfortunately as we have seen with what happened to Barzagli, they need to all be mentally ready, not just during the week but also during the games," added Prandelli.
If there is one saving grace for Italy in their recent troubles it is that they have only lost three friendlies and not any competitive matches.
But they will have a baptism of fire in this competition as they begin their Group C quest against world champions Spain in Gdansk on Sunday.
But Prandelli says that at least his side's performance against Russia will have prevented Spain from being able to prepare properly for his team.
"The positive thing is that we arrive without any type of mental preconditions, with great concentration and attention to detail," he said.
"The negative aspect is that we're playing Spain. The only advantage is that they won't have understood anything (from watching the Russia game)."
The other element playing on many people's minds is the fact that Italy is gripped by a domestic match-fixing scandal.
The last time that happened they went on to win the World Cup in Germany in 2006.
And before that, in 1982, Italy also won the World Cup just a couple of years after yet another match-fixing affair.
But that's not an omen Prandelli is comfortable with.
"I don't like this game, we wanted to arrive with a different ambiance but there's great spirit in the camp so we won't be discouraged."
