ROME - Italian police investigating a football match-fixing scandal placed Juventus manager Antonio Conte under investigation, and arrested Lazio captain Stefano Mauri and former Genoa midfielder Omar Milanetto yesterday.
National team fullback Domenico Criscito's room was also searched, at Italy's Euro 2012 camp just outside Florence, as part of the probe.
A police statement said yesterday that five people had also been arrested in Hungary on suspicion of being part of an illegal international betting ring headed by a Singaporean, identified as Tan Seet Eng, who was arrested in December.
Police in the northern Italian city of Cremona said that they had made 19 arrests and were investigating Conte, fresh from his triumph in leading Juventus to the Italian Serie A title for the first time since the club were relegated in 2006 in an earlier match-fixing scandal.
The police added that searches were conducted at the homes of a number of players, trainers and administrators of clubs in Serie A, Serie B and the lower division Lega Pro, on suspicion of involvement in match fixing on behalf of international criminal organizations.
Yesterday's operation was part of Operation Last Bet, a wider investigation into match fixing in Italian soccer which has already seen a number of arrests of current and former Italian players.
"In this part of the investigation, indications have emerged of manipulation in matches from the 2010/2011 Serie A championship, including games between Lazio and Genoa, and Lecce and Lazio," said Mr Raffale Grassi, director of SCO - the police service responsible for the investigation.
Last June, the Interior Ministry set up a special match-fixing task force in response to a number of high-profile cases.
Former Atalanta captain and Italy midfielder Cristiano Doni was banned for 31/2 years in August, for his part in the match-fixing scandal involving Serie B matches last season.
Atalanta, promoted from Serie B, were deducted six points in the top flight this season as a result of the scandal.
Former Lazio and Italy striker Giuseppe Signori was banned for five years, and 15 other players were banned for between one and five years for their part in the same scandal.
The raids come less than two weeks before the European Championship begins in Poland and Ukraine, with Mauri usually as Italy coach Cesare Prandelli's first choice left-back.
Prandelli has until today to submit a final list but, given his strict code of ethics which has seen him drop players on disciplinary charges with their clubs, he may be unwilling to take a player implicated in such an affair.
