TOKYO - Japan dreamed of adding Olympic gold to their Women's World Cup title on the fabled turf of Wembley Thursday after being handed a favourable draw for London 2012.
Coach Norio Sasaki said Group F opponents Canada, Sweden and South Africa were all "wonderful teams". But he added: "Of course we aim for the gold medal."
"We want to realise the dream of playing on this pitch (Wembley), a sacred place for football in England," said Sasaki, according to Japanese media.
Japan, one of the favourites, avoided beaten World Cup finalists the United States in the draw, as well as Brazil, Great Britain and North Korea, while Germany did not qualify.
The Nadeshiko will open their campaign against Canada in Coventry on July 25. One semi-final and the final will be played at London's famous Wembley stadium.
"The first match is always important in any tournament, so I hope we can play well, win and pick up momentum," said world player of the year Homare Sawa, according to Kyodo News Agency.
New Zealand said the Football Ferns had secured a "dream match-up" after being drawn to face hosts Great Britain in the competition's curtain-raiser in Cardiff on July 25, two days before the opening ceremony.
"To draw the hosts to open the entire Olympic Games will be very special for our team," said coach Tony Readings, whose team will also face Brazil and Cameroon.
"But we've got three difficult games and our mission is the same whether it's (the) opening game or final pool game - we're out to get the points we need to secure a top-two placing in the group."
Japan's men have a horror start against Spain on July 26, but South Korea appear to have an easier task after being drawn against Mexico, Switzerland and Gabon in Group B.
However, coach Hong Myung-bo said: "We should be cautious about all three teams in Group B. I will first of all focus on getting beyond the group stage."
"I think we should be well-prepared for all three teams," he added.
Japan also face Honduras and Morocco in Group D, while New Zealand have Brazil, Egypt and Belarus in Group C.
"A win and a draw may be enough to get to the next stage, where anything can happen," said Oly Whites coach Neil Emblen.
