Roy Hodgson took a gamble in dropping Andy Carroll for Wayne Rooney and it paid off.
But for all the wrong reasons.
One headed goal from 30cm off the line of an empty net does not obscure the fact that, for most of the game, Rooney was rubbish.
The old maxim that you do not change a winning side has never looked as sound as it did for the first half of England's dour 1-0 victory this morning (Singapore time).
With Carroll up front, England had an aerial presence, a terrifying target to aim at.
They always had an option, an out ball when times were tough.
With Rooney, that ball wasn't an option. Indeed, he was so bad that no ball was an option.
His rustiness shouldn't really have come as much of a surprise, given that this was his first competitive game of football in a month.
He shouldn't have been expected to come into the team and perform anywhere near his best.
After topping his group and securing qualification to the next round, it would be mean spirited to direct criticism at manager Roy Hodgson, but this could easily have been his first serious mistake in the job.
And his last of the tournament.
Rooney just couldn't hang on to the ball in the first half.
It was like a flashback to that grim period between the 2010 World Cup and the overhead kick against Manchester City when he appeared to be wearing clogs for every game.
Nothing he tried seemed to work, including simply trapping the ball at his feet.
It was like watching one of Manchester United's pre-season friendlies when everyone is wearing new boots and carrying some excess "holiday" weight.
When a perfectly hit cross found Rooney alone and unmarked on the edge of the six-yard box, he did what he was entitled to do after such a lengthy absence - he powered the ball well wide of the goal.
If Carroll had been playing, the ball would have ripped through the net and knocked an England fan unconscious.
If Carroll had been playing, as he should have been, Hodgson could then have brought Rooney on in the second half without any pressure whatsoever.
He could have found his touch in his own time, away from the spotlight of expectation.
Instead, Rooney went the other way, withdrawn late on after a thoroughly disappointing display.
It makes no difference now, of course.
In fact, England loyalists will claim that Hodgson's plan has had a double bonus because Rooney is now closer to full match fitness.
Hindsight is a wonderful thing.
Ukraine created numerous chances in the first half and scored a perfectly legitimate goal in the second, only to see it ignored by a feckless fifth official.
This could have been very, very different.
Rooney may have scored the winner, but his performance was desperately poor.
Make no mistake, this was a lucky escape for England and a lucky escape for Hodgson.
England, somehow, live to fight another day.
