LONDON - England captain Steven Gerrard insists his side's hard-fought 1-0 win over Belgium was the perfect preparation for their Euro 2012 opener against France.
Roy Hodgson's side had to withstand some robust challenges from a physical Belgian outfit as well as coping with the superior technique of Marc Wilmots' side.
Gary Cahill came off with a potentially fractured jaw, while John Terry faces a scan on a hamstring problem at the end of a bruising encounter that must have had England coach Roy Hodgson wincing as he contemplated an ever-increasing injury list.
Yet Gerrard believes the gruelling examination at Wembley was much more useful than a heavy win over lesser opposition as it should give England confidence they can cope with even sterner tests ahead.
"I think it's good. It's the test we needed," Gerrard said. "We have got over a week now to dust ourselves down, recover and get ourselves ready for France.
"I think France is going to be similar to that. It will be a very tough test. We will need a performance like tonight, if not a bit little better."
Perspiration rather than inspiration has been the defining characteristic of England's two 1-0 wins under new boss Hodgson.
But Liverpool midfielder Gerrard is confident the combination of obdurate defending and incisive counter-attacking that saw off Belgium can be repeated with success in the Euros.
"We limited Belgium to very few chances," Gerrard said. The manager wants us to dispossess the opposition in dangerous areas and that's what we did for the goal.
"I got a chance in central midfield to bite. It's important in situations like that and we are pleased with the goal coming from that."
With Frank Lampard and Gareth Barry already ruled out through injuries, Gerrard caused a few palpitations on the England bench when he came off with a limp in the closing stages, but he was quick to insist it was only a touch of cramp.
"It was just a bit of cramp. I will be fine for France. It's nothing to worry about," he added.
But Gerrard was more concerned with injury updates on Chelsea centre-back Cahill, who had to wait until Sunday to discover if scans on his jaw would rule him out of the tournament.
"Gary has been playing really well for Chelsea and we are all keeping our fingers crossed that he is ok," Gerrard said.
"He was one of the main reasons we were able to keep Belgium at bay so hopefully his injury isn't serious."
