At times, the immense risk of playing Mario Balotelli, the human equivalent of spontaneous combustion, beggars belief.
Then he pulls off a move or scores a goal so wonderful that you begin to appreciate his talent once more.
Like the beauty he scored against the Republic of Ireland in Italy's final group match, hooking the ball with such venom with his back facing goal.
Then the cycle started all over again.
Instead of wheeling away in delight like normal footballing folks do, Balotelli began mouthing off toward the Italian bench.
Whether that was in response to him being dropped to the bench for the first time in the tournament, aimed at the Irish fans who were getting on his back, or directed at the media who have been criticising him, that knowledge is kept within a tight circle.
That Balotelli is a ticking time-bomb that much Italy manager Cesare Prandelli accepts.
Whether Prandelli possesses the subtlety and know-how to handle an improvised explosive device that Balotelli represents, on the big occasion, England may find out soon.
Tomorrow morning (Singapore time), Italy will cross swords with England at the Olympic Stadium in Kiev, Ukraine, for a spot in the Euro 2012 semi-finals.
From a pure footballing perspective, it's ridiculous that Balotelli's place in the first XI isn't even guaranteed.
Many in Italy thinks he holds the key to beating an England team who are expected to stay in their half, ready to pounce at the press of a button.
They see him as a risk worth taking, because his phenomenal strength and explosive pace can pose problems to England's slow central defence of John Terry and Joleon Lescott.
For strength, just watch the replay of Balotelli's goal against Ireland, and look out for the grimace on John O'Shea, as he tussled for the ball with the Man City star.
For speed, simply check with the English Premier League defenders who face him on a frequent basis.
Balotelli's intimate knowledge of how Lescott - his teammate at Manchester City - defends also gives him a significant edge.
Midfielder James Milner and goalkeeper Joe Hart turns out for the same club. Every bit of inside information helps.
Former Chelsea manager Carlo Ancelotti, now at the helm of Paris St-Germain, reckons Balotelli "can win the tournament for us".
His City manager Roberto Mancini is of the opinion that Balotelli should "always play" for Italy.
At some point or another during press conferences with the Italian team, the topic will automatically switch to the firebrand.
At the post-match conference following the England-Italy match, it won't be any different, whether or not he plays any part in the game.
It will be a travesty if he doesn't.
