The Singapore LionsXII team opened up a six-point lead atop the Malaysian Super League (MSL) with a hard-fought 2-1 win over Perak at the Jalan Besar Stadium last night.
Irwan Shah's 89th-minute strike sent the 6,408-strong crowd into delirium, as the Lions emerged from a tough stretch of the league schedule with a sizeable lead atop the table, although second-placed Kelantan have played three fewer matches.
The victory extended their unbeaten streak to 10 matches, their last loss coming on Jan 28, a 0-1 home defeat by Terengganu.
Since then, they have won eight matches and drawn two, with yesterday's match undoubtedly one of their hardest.
Playing their third match in eight days, and against unpredictable Perak, the Lions were stretched to the limit of their endurance, but won the home supporters' loud cheers with their dogged persistence.
They began the match brightly, accurately stringing together passes to cause plenty of consternation amid the Perak defence.
The best early chance fell to defender Safuwan Baharudin in the 18th minute, but he contrived to somehow head the ball against the crossbar at point-blank range.
Perak were no pushovers either, with their foreign import Michal Kubala testing goalkeeper Hyrulnizam Juma'at's reflexes with two long-range shots.
But the Lions kept probing the suspect Perak defence, and made their breakthrough in the 43rd minute, when striker Khairul Nizam was tripped inside the penalty box by Syazwan Roslan.
Playmaker Shahdan Sulaiman made no mistake from the resultant spot kick.
However, Perak equalised five minutes after the break with a penalty kick won under contentious circumstances.
Lions defender Sevki Sha'ban was adjudged to have tugged the jersey of Perak's Akmal Rizal, although replays showed minimal contact.
Hyrulnizam saved Kubala's initial spot kick, but the Slovakian made no mistake with his follow-up effort.
Coach V. Sundramoorthy then gambled by sending on a half-fit captain Shahril Ishak and, in a tactical masterstroke, put Safuwan up in front as a target man.
It paid off right at the end, as Safuwan headed into Irwan's path for the winger to slot home.
