Emmanuel Adebayor admits Tottenham Hotspur face a test of character when they visit Queens Park Rangers on Saturday, six days after suffering a Wembley humiliation.
Adebayor and his team-mates were left stunned following their 5-1 defeat by Chelsea in the FA Cup semi-final that drew an abrupt line under their efforts to land silverware this season.
The loss left Spurs with a top four finish in the Premier League as their only remaining target this season.
And the pressure is now on the north London club to reverse an alarming dip in form and prevent themselves being overhauled in the race to secure a place in next term's Champions League by Newcastle and Chelsea.
Tottenham's home defeat by Norwich in their last league match means only goal difference separates them from fifth-placed Newcastle while Roberto di Matteo's Chelsea lie two points further adrift.
And they are unlikely to be given an easy ride by QPR, who may be fighting to avoid relegation but who have also enjoyed an impressive run of results at home.
Spurs striker Adebayor said: "The most important thing now from QPR until Fulham at the end of the season is to finish in the top four.
"We are going through a difficult moment but the quality is still there, as you could see in the first half against Chelsea.
"The life of a footballer is about good moments and difficult moments and we're going through a difficult moment now. We have to show character, personality and fight for the team and the fans.
"We have to believe in ourselves that we can do it, and we will do it.
"We have great players and we know what it takes to get out of a difficult moment and that's what we intend to do against QPR. It won't be easy, but we have that belief.
"At the beginning of the season our target was to finish in the top four and we are in a good position. We have to keep going and fight to the end of the season."
QPR are two points above the relegation zone ahead of this weekend's game at Loftus Road, where they have beaten Swansea, Arsenal and Liverpool in their three most recent three outings at the west London ground.
"There are four games left to keep ourselves in the Premier League," said QPR winger Jamie Mackie. "This weekend's game is a cup final in my eyes and it will be followed by another cup final at Chelsea, and then two more.
"As players we have got to leave everything we have out on that pitch. We have to make sure we bring our all."
Mackie, who grew up as a Spurs fan, added he may be put in a difficult position if QPR beat Tottenham, at least as far as his family are concerned.
"This is massive for me because I grew up supporting Spurs," he said. "But I am a QPR man now and I love it here.
"I am going to do my utmost to score a goal and help win the game for us. I might upset a few Spurs-supporting family and friends if I do that, but I don't mind that."
QPR have no new injury problems ahead of the match.
Striker Heidar Helguson is likely to be involved after he made an appearance as a late substitute against West Brom last week, after three months out with a groin problem.
