Manchester City have all but clinched the Premier League title now.
It wasn't so much their 2-0 win away to Newcastle last night which did the job.
It was their 1-0 win against Manchester United last week.
Many thought Newcastle could be a banana skin for City, especially on their good form.
But watching the game, I didn't think at any time that they were going to upset Roberto Mancini's men.
It looked for a while that City were struggling to score, but when Mancini took Samir Nasri off and pushed Yaya Toure into a more attacking position, that did the job.
That substitution changed the game.
Yohan Cabaye and Cheik Tiote didn't know how to deal with Toure, and the City midfielder went on to score both goals.
Before the game, everyone was talking about Newcastle's Demba Ba and Papiss Cisse, but they were completely outplayed by Joleon Lescott and Vincent Kompany.
In the end, Joe Hart only had three saves to make.
This was a Newcastle team fighting to make it into the top four, but City were simply too good. They were comfortable winners.
There really isn't too much doubt now about them lifting the title.
At home against QPR next week, I expect them to win by four goals.
QPR will be fighting for survival and they'll still need a point to be safe, so it will be a tense affair.
But looking at the players City have in goal, defence, midfield and attack, they will be too much for QPR.
When you're going for the title and the onus is on you to score, win the game and take the trophy, you'll give everything you have for those 90 minutes to get the job done.
It's justice in a way. City have been the best team in the league this season.
United went on top for a while, but they were never really convincing.
City, on the other hand, were always consistent. Plus, they beat United home and away to prove their worth.
A few things went against City during the course of this season.
Toure was missing because of the African Nations Cup. He's a huge player, and without him, the team lost their way a bit.
Then there was the Carlos Tevez affair and Mario Balotelli's off-the-field shenanigans.
But despite all that, they bounced back each time and kept the pressure on United.
Many people thought that when the pressure kicked in, City would wilt and United would come out on top because of all their experience.
That didn't happen.
I fancied City to win at the start of the season, on the basis that they had the strongest squad in the league.
Against Newcastle last night, they flexed those muscles.
Championship stuff, really
Ray Houghton is a former Liverpool midfielder who played for the Reds from 1987 to 1992, winning two league and two FA Cup titles, and was voted 52nd in the poll 100 Players Who Shook The Kop.
Houghton is now an ambassador for the Football Association of Ireland, and also works as a co-commentator for Ireland TV channel RTE, and as a co-presenter on UK radio station talkSPORT "QPR will be tough, they are fighting for relegation. Nothing changes. It is ours to lose. It doesn't depend on other teams anymore." - Roberto Mancini (left)
