For almost two years, she slogged and searched for improvement.
But where it truly counted - the inescapable reality of results - Amanda Lim was not making waves. As the South-east Asian (SEA) Swimming Championships came to a close yesterday, however, the 18-year-old was content.
Content that for the first time in 24 months, she had regained her form, setting season bests in two events.
She said: "I was stagnant for quite awhile after they banned the (full-body) suits. Now I'm finally starting to get back in form."
Amanda was in fine form in 2009, setting the national record (25.38sec) in the 50m freestyle at the Asian Youth Games, which was held in Singapore that year.
But, when the full-body suits were banned in 2010, her form went along with it.
In the women's 50m freestyle yesterday, she clocked a new season best of 25.71sec en route to her fourth and final gold medal of the championships - without the full-body suit.
In an exciting race, Amanda edged out compatriot Mylene Ong, who came in second in 25.86.
It was her second season best in as many days.
Her first came last Saturday, in the women's 200m freestyle, where she clocked a time of 2min 2.76sec, eclipsing her previous best of 2:02.81.
The reigning Sportsgirl of the Year attributed her recent results to her new coach, Ian Turner. She said: "I work really well with Ian. He understands me and we communicate at a good level.
"I'm satisfied with my performance during this meet, especially with the four gold medals. But I think I can continue to improve my times."
Amanda and teammate Mylene finished the championships as the Singapore's joint-top gold medallists with four golds each, a prized contribution to the nation's status as the top-performing country at the championships with 40 medals (16 gold, 11 silver, 13 bronze).
Quah Zheng Wen, 15, was the best male performer for Singapore. He won his third gold yesterday in the 200m butterfly.
He said: "I think I performed better towards the end and it's good to end a meet on a more positive note.
"I realised - more so than before - that preparation is really important. Mine was a little off, and so it's good to learn from it."
Although Singapore topped the medals table, individual honours went to the visiting swimmers. Vietnam's female sensation Nguyen Thi Anh Vien was the meet's top gold medallist with five while Indonesia's I Gede Siman tallied four golds to finish as the top male swimmer.
Anh Vien, 15, won every event she swam in - 200m backstroke, 200m individual medley, 100m backstroke, 50m backstroke and 400m individual medley - and breached the Olympic 'B' mark in each event.
I Gede staked a claim as the region's "backstroke king", after sweeping the 50m, 100m and 200m events in the discipline.
He was also part of the winning team in the 400m medley relay.
The 17-year-old said: "I was expecting to win only three - the 200m (backstroke) was a surprise. "I feel like I'm the best at backstroke and I want to keep it that way. My pacing wasn't so good but I still managed four golds, so I'm very glad."
