It was no return of the king.
Wayne Rooney's re-appearance in the England fold failed to inject the attacking zest that it promised, but produced the desired result all right.
A free header almost on the goal-line from him just after half-time was enough to notch England a hard-fought 1-0 win over Ukraine, and send them through to the quarter-finals as Group D winners.
Expected to enter the fray with a bang, by the end of the game the striker instead had everyone wondering if he should had been on the pitch at all.
There were occasions during the Ukraine match in Donetsk last Tuesday when a Rooney at the top of his game would have seized with aplomb.
Such as the 28th-minute header from close range that should have at least drawn a save from the suspect Ukraine goalkeeper Andriy Pyatov, or the other header with a quarter of an hour remaining that Pyatov saved.
On numerous occasions, his ball control let him down, his passes went astray and his body didn't seem to be able to keep up with his mind.
Roy Hodgson's insistence during the pre-match press conference that there would be no problems with the 26-year-old Rooney being "ring-rusty" turned out to be wishful thinking.
In truth, he looked a little short of match fitness, and if that's the case, then the 87-minute work-out will come in handy for tomorrow morning's (Singapore time) last-eight clash with Italy in Kiev.
It is interesting to note that, for all his purported importance to England, that goal against Ukraine was his first in tournament play since 2004.
That was the year a fresh-faced Rooney stormed onto the big stage with four goals at Euro 2004, but was subsequently injured during the quarter-final game with Portugal. England eventually lost to the hosts on a penalty shoot-out.
Troubled by injury at the 2006 World Cup and then personal problems four years later, you would imagine that he is desperate to grab this chance to prove himself in a major tournament.
The Rooney of 2004 is who England need for the intriguing Italian assignment.
It's a given by now that England have been playing better than expected. But because of their cautious approach, they are going to need some individual brilliance at the attacking end to sneak in a goal or two.
Andy Carroll and Danny Welbeck have done well during Rooney's two-game absence but they are nothing more than rough gems at the moment.
To trouble the Italians, England need a striker of pedigree, someone like Rooney, who currently has 29 international goals under his belt.
Former England striker Alan Shearer, who backs him to eventually break Bobby Charlton's record haul of 49 goals, pointed out that Rooney didn't lose his killer's instinct despite struggling against the Ukrainians.
He said: "Rooney showed his instinct to be in the right place for the goal no matter how the ball got there.
"Great strikers can have poor games but still come out with a goal."
Rooney will be happy to prove him right.
The latent prowess is there. England just need to extract it when the time is ripe.
