Tan Sri Annuar Musa: When I took over Kelantan FA in late 2007, we were still in the FAM Cup, the third division.
The team were in a bad shape - we were in the third division had debts of around RM2 million (S$819,000).
Most of the good footballers who were born and bred here went to play for other states, probably because of better offers, and we were left with not so good players. Naturally, we struggled to fill the stadium that can seat about 20,000.
So the previous leaders, who are my friends, approached me for help and being Kelantanese, of course I wanted to help restore my state team.
I had been Malaysia's sports minister from 1990 to 1994, as well as minister of rural development from 1994 to 2000, and I was also Kelantan's Umno chief, so I asked then-Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi for permission to take over the team.
In 2008, we were promoted to the Malaysian Premier League, the second division and, by a stroke of luck, we then entered the Malaysian Super League (MSL) when one team dropped out.
In 2010, we won the Malaysia Cup for the first time in 89 years and last year we were MSL champions for the first time.
There is immense satisfaction. Previously, the Kelantanese were a factionalised bunch due to politics, but football has brought them together again. Whether they are from PAS or Umno, we all support Kelantan.
At first, I thought it was just building a strong team on the field. But it is not just about that. With money, we can assemble the best players, but how do we restore the team, the federation, back to health so that they benefit Kelantan football again?
So I came up with a three-year plan and explained to the committee what it was all about. It was a total revamp, from the team colours (red), to the logo, to the mascot (Red Warriors)... bringing in a good coach, establishing a scouting programme, signing good Kelantanese players, organising ground activation and district-to-district events.
Initially, when I took over, our gate receipts were around RM170,000 a year. After a year, it went up to RM1.7m, then more than RM2m as the spectators started coming back.
Last season, we took in about RM4m.
I have travelled to places like Britain and Japan, and also the other Malaysian states, to study their football models.
Then, I started to build our academy, launch The Red Warriors cafe just outside the stadium where players can mix with fans, develop merchandise and other commercial aspects like a professional team.
I engage fans through Facebook. My page has over 50,000 likes and many ideas I had actually come from the fans.
Soon, we will be building a new football-dedicated stadium - modelled after Cardiff City's - in Kota Baru that can seat 30,000. And we will also have our own TV channel, The Red Warriors TV.
It has been a most interesting experience bringing in investors and sponsors.
Many people think that it is arm-twisting them through social corporate responsibility, but it is not. When I was a minister, maybe I could ask people to contribute RM200,000 or RM300,000 and they would because they feel obliged.
But I realised we could do so much more when we talked about real value, the dollars and cents, and how to make it good value and business for our potential partners.
There is always huge potential, but it depends on how you develop and present your team.
Look at the advertisement boards around Kota Baru. Our players are our ambassadors and we sell them, and in a way they help to sell products for our sponsors.
Sinar Harian were a struggling newspaper but after we partnered them, they have been Kelantan's top paper because they cover our team extensively and people want to read about Kelantan.
Even fan clubs have commercial value, and we are in discussions with Snickers to sponsor our supporters' club.
So our revenue stream comes from merchandising, events, club membership, product endorsement, royalties and gate receipt.
The ban was quite unexpected and I'm still trying to see how to handle the situation.
I will not allow what I have initiated to be spoilt by this temporary setback.
I feel the decision to impose the suspension on me was made in a haste.
As of now, I don't go to the dressing room, or to the bench on matchday like I used to and I miss all these.
When we were 2-0 down to Kedah at half-time in the second leg of the FA Cup semi-final, I felt like crying because I couldn't do anything, so I just texted the coach to do something about it, and thankfully we managed to reach the final.
I still talk to the players, I still hand out the bonus, and as far as I am concerned, I still run the show.
I don't regret making the comments.
FAM's Article 88, which states that only the FAM president and secretary general can comment on the national team's performance, in itself is against freedom of speech.
I think the spirit of Article 88 has been interpreted wrongly and I will make sure it is removed.
I won't take this lying down because FAM needs to be more transparent for the betterment of Malaysia football.
I have responded positively to (FAM deputy president) Tengku Abdullah's offer to mediate and I will request the executive committee to set up a tribunal to listen to my explanation.
Look, I want to set the record straight - I'm not aspiring to be FAM president nor am I looking to go against (FAM president) Sultan Ahmad Shah. But there are many areas FAM can improve when it comes to being transparent.
Even now, I feel what was tabled was noble and should be supported, and that is for the Under-23 teams of both countries to take part in each other's leagues because this would be good for the development of both teams and leagues.
But Singapore were then allowed to field an Under-28 team instead. The executive committee were told, not consulted, that senior players will be allowed for the Singaporean team in the MSL, and I am against this in principle.
What I meant with my Facebook comments was that this move makes things more interesting as far as betting is concerned.
In Singapore, the fact is there is legalised football betting, but we still can't accept that in Malaysia.
So what I'm saying is that this arrangement to have an Under-28 team is good for Singapore but not for Malaysia.
But let me be clear about this - as chairman of the MSL, anything that enhances the value of the league, I'm all for it.
And this includes having foreign players again, and having a Singapore team in our league again, because it creates new excitement.
Wherever the LionsXII go, they will draw crowds.
I THINK we were lucky not to concede before half-time, but we played well in the second half and deserved the win.
Of course, we aspire to win the league again, and we are in a good position.
But we cannot be complacent.
The LionsXII are a good team and they will be a force to be reckoned with in the Malaysia Cup.
