A pall of gloom hovered over the Bayern Munich training headquarters in Harlaching, Munich, three Saturdays ago.
It was the morning of the Champions League final against Chelsea, and there was pessimism among Bayern officials and fans at the impressive headquarters in the Bavarian capital.
Even Bayern Under-19 assistant coach, Malaysian Lim Teong Kim, expressed doubts about the German side winning European clubs' biggest prize.
It was hard to fathom why.
Not when the whole place was a hive of activity, and the protagonists were very upbeat.
There were games going on: Kids' matches, a youth team match between Bayern and Wolfsburg, tourists visiting the club and the gymnasium and physio room were fully occupied.
The Bundesliga club's academy may not be as impressive as those of Ajax Amsterdam or Manchester United, but the intensity with which activities were being carried out was certainly indicative of a club on the move.
Bayern Munich are more than a club, they are an institution.
Formed at the turn of the 20th century, Germany's most successful club have history, tradition and a following unsurpassed among European clubs.
Notable players who have come through the ranks include Gerd "The Bomber" Muller, Sepp Maier, Paul Breitner, Franz Beckenbauer, Uli Hoeness and Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, the latter three still holding office at the club.
Hoeness and Rummenigge make it a point to drop in at the headquarters at least twice a week, and they keep a close watch on the activities at the academy.
Four fields, a gym, spa, swimming pool, lounge area, a corner for players' wives, a dining area and a full-equipped physio room occupy most of the academy.
And the changing rooms, one for the first-team professionals with designated lockers and their portraits hanging from the walls leading to the rooms, and the other for junior players, underline Bayern's belief in development from within as a big priority.
Six of those years have been spent as assistant coach of the Bayern Under-19 team who qualified for the national semi-finals recently.
During my visit to the academy last month, Lim was busy preparing the team for the semi-final first leg against Hertha Berlin at home on Wednesday and away on Sunday.
The other semi-finalists are Wolfsburg and Schalke 04.
Of his stint at Bayern, Lim said: "It has been a long yet enjoyable stay. The professional approach and attitude at the club is unparallelled. I have seen many top professionals going through the ranks.
"I used to coach players such as Thomas Mueller, Holger Badstuber and Toni Kroos who have now made it to the Bayern first team."
He added: "As in most top European clubs, talent scouts identify players of all ages and make recommendations to the club. We scrutinise every applicant and, with the shortlist, we train the players.
"Some make it, many fall out, and some move to other clubs. But those who succeed and stay have a bright future because Bayern are an established Bundesliga club and the No. 1 team in Munich."
Bayern enjoy worldwide support. It is said that they have fans from as far as Canada, United States, Peru, Brazil, Argentina, many African countries and even Singapore and Malaysia.
They are the most successful club in Germany, having won 22 national titles and 15 cups.
The club enjoyed their greatest success in the mid-Seventies when, captained by Beckenbaeur, they won the European Cup three times in a row (1974-76).
In recent years, Bayern have been the dominant German club, winning five of the last 10 Bundesliga titles.
They won the Intercontinental Cup in 2001, after landing their fourth European Cup the same year. Since then, they were pipped in three Champions League finals. In 1999, they lost 2-1 to Manchester United conceding two very late goals.
In 2010, they lost 2-0 to Jose Mourinho's Inter Milan and three Saturdays ago, they were beaten 4-3 on penalties by Chelsea after a 1-1 draw after 120 minutes.
Since the beginning of the 2005-06 season, Bayern play their home games in the near 70,000-capacity Allianz Arena, after having the Munich Olympic Stadium as their home for 33 years.
Bayern are a membership-based club with 162,187 members. There are also 2,764 officially-registered fan clubs with 192,160 members.
The club have other departments for chess, handball, basketball, gymnastics, bowling, table tennis and senior football.
But pro football is Bayern's bread and butter, and it is no surprise that they have eight players in the Germany squad for this month's European Championship.
