SINGAPORE - So Anton, what did you have for dinner yesterday?
Flashing his pearly whites, ultra-runner Anton Krupicka told this reporter: "Oh, that coconut rice thing."
The 28-year-old American was, of course, referring to nasi lemak, a popular Malay dish in Singapore.
While nasi lemak may not be one of the items on the staple diet of most athletes, due to its oily content, Krupicka is undaunted, saying that he is "pretty relaxed with his diet".
His non-adherence to a strict diet was just one of the many things this reporter - together with five lucky winners of the "Run with Krupicka" contest, jointly organised by New Balance - learned about him during a running clinic at MacRitchie Reservoir last Thursday.
Instead of running bare-chested - his preferred dress code in the United States - Krupicka wore a singlet for the 6km run under the hot sun.
As expected, the nasi lemak did not affect his performance.
He began the run so suddenly that he caught me off guard.
In my feeble attempt to keep up with him, I observed his running style.
Despite taking what looked like short effortless strides, he covered a large distance quickly.
The trail surface that day was cold, hard and to the feet, painful.
One of the runners joked: "Enjoy the free foot massage!"
Krupicka seemed oblivious to the discomfort, which was hardly surprising since he has the habit of running bare-footed.
It wasn't long before I found myself trailing behind the two-time champion of the Leadville 100 race.
Eventually, I reached the U-turn point of the trail, where like any good coach, Krupicka was there with the faster runners waiting for the remaining few to arrive.
When everyone was ready, Krupicka led the group for the second leg of the run, chatting with a few of them along the way.
While I was gasping for air, Krupicka was talking casually, a testament to his 17 years of running experience.
One of the runners he spoke to was B. Shanmugam, owner of local running shop, The Running Gait.
Shanmugam said that he felt a special connection with Krupicka.
He said: "I felt a tight bond with him when we started running and sharing our experiences. "It was as if we haven't met in years!"
For the winners of the New Balance contest, it was truly a memorable run.
Glenn Teo said that he learnt a few things while running with Krupicka.
He said: "I learnt to pace myself. Krupicka told us to start slow, and move faster as we get our momentum up."
Student Norharry Abdul Wahid felt very encouraged after meeting Krupicka in person.
"Meeting him up close is very inspirational, and hopefully, I can become a long-distance runner like him!" he said.
