WARSAW, POLAND - UEFA said on Sunday that it was taking action against Germany and Portugal for the behaviour of their supporters and team, respectively, in the latest disciplinary measures in Euro 2012 after crowd trouble with Russia.
European football's governing body said that its Control and Disciplinary Body would deal with the cases on Thursday in relation to events at last Saturday's Group B match in the Ukrainian city of Lviv.
"The German Football Association is charged with the throwing of missiles by supporters, while the Portuguese Football Federation faces proceedings for a delayed kick-off to the second half," a statement said.
Germany, among the favourites to challenge holders Spain for the European crown, won the match 1-0.
Uefa has already initiated proceedings against Russia, after the country's fans lit and threw fireworks and displayed potentially inflammatory "Russian Empire" flags at last Friday's Group A game with the Czech Republic in Wroclaw, Poland.
It also said it was investigating claims by a racism-monitoring body that the Czech Republic's Theo Gebre Selassie, who is black, was subjected to monkey chants during the game, which Russia won 4-1.
A police investigation has been launched separately into an attack on four volunteer stadium stewards after the match, with police given the go-ahead to publish "Wanted" notices, complete with photographs of six Russian suspects.
Russian football chiefs vowed to do all they could to prevent a repeat of the violence and officially warned fans to be on their best behaviour, saying anyone involved had "dishonoured" the country.
"We will work with our supporters so it doesn't happen again," said the head of the Russian football federation, Sergei Fursenko.
However, the head of the Russian football supporters' association, Alexander Shprygin, accused the Polish stewards of provoking the attack.
"After the incident with the flare, four local stewards came into the Russian fans' sector and tried to detain a fan, who wasn't guilty of any wrongdoing," he said.
"(The stewards) acted roughly, insulting our fans verbally. Our fans warned them once, twice... In general, our fans just did not allow the stewards to detain an innocent fan. After that, our fans walked away from the stadium in an organised way."
Meanwhile, Wroclaw police said that two Russia fans were each given two-year bans from football grounds in Poland for ignoring requests by security personnel during the match.
Four other Russia fans were charged with taking part in a restaurant brawl.
In Poznan, western Poland, where Ireland took on Croatia on Sunday, police said they had detained 15 fans, including 10 Poles, four Irishmen and one Croat after an overnight free-for-all in the city's historic central square.
