Gary Neville cuts an energetic figure in the England camp.
At 37, his body can no longer withstand the rigours of professional football.
A month ago, the former England international was parachuted into the coaching team by newly-appointed manager Roy Hodgson.
Instead of the familiar image of Neville battling it out on the right of defence, he now encourages the players on the field in training, barks instructions during games and provides a pillar of support for the players in the dressing room.
He still commands a huge amount of respect from the players.
Tomorrow morning (Singapore time), he will be in the dug-out, hoping to see the drastic transformation of England from perennial chokers to over-achievers.
Over the years, the Three Lions have become known as a "quarter-final team", a broad reference to their inability to make that massive step to progress into the last four of a major tournament.
Victory over Italy at the Olympic Stadium in Kiev will represent not just a great achievement for a team written off before Euro 2012 but, in the process, will also remove the mental obstacle that has proved extremely stubborn.
To do that, England must first make Neville eat his words.
The Manchester United legend is known for his brutally-honest views on football and for not pulling his punches.
By his own admission, he has "said a lot over the years".
In his book last year, Red, he practically dismissed England's hopes of winning Euro 2012 by saying: "I don't see us competing seriously for a major tournament for at least 10 years. We still have a lot of catching up to do."
The years of hurt have fuelled the negativity which, to be fair, consumes most of the country.
Not since 1996 have England made it to the last four of a major competition.
In the five World Cups after their semi-final appearance in 1990, England reached the quarter -finals and Round of 16 twice, and failed to qualify for the other.
Their record looks even worse in the European Championship.
As hosts, they made it to the Euro 1996 semi-finals. But, in the following two editions, they were knocked out in the group stage, then eliminated in the quarters. Four years ago, they failed to even qualify.
It doesn't help that England were almost always built up as one of the title contenders.
But they flattered to deceive, and this was what prompted former England player Chris Waddle to famously label England as nothing more than "a quarter-final team".
Two years ago, the band of brothers touted as England's golden generation failed spectacularly in the World Cup in South Africa.
Ashley Cole, John Terry and Steven Gerrard survived, and now the 30-somethings are readying themselves for another shot at pushing England through the mental barrier.
Neville listed one of the biggest problems of previous England sides when he said in his book: "It (playing for England) should be fantastic, the best moments of your life.
"But there is no doubt that too many players spend too much time fearing the consequence of failure when they pull on an England shirt."
Whether the same uncertainties will hit them again in tomorrow's high-stakes encounter, time will tell.
Here at Euro 2012, England look a rejuvenated side under Hodgson, exuding an air of confidence and enjoyment not witnessed since Terry Venables led them to the brink of the final in 1996.
Victory over the Azzurri could unclog the psychological debris that has been stuck in the head for far too long.
