KRAKOW, Poland - AC Milan chief executive Adriano Galliani is allegedly in France negotiating the sale of Brazilian centre-back Thiago Silva to Paris St Germain, but striker Antonio Cassano says that would be a mistake.
French press have claimed the deal is as good as done while the Italian press reported that Galliani went to the Linate airport in Milan on Tuesday morning and boarded a plane for Paris.
Talk is of a figure in the region of 40-50 million euros, a sum which apparently has convinced the Italian giants to sell.
But Milan and Italy forward Cassano says such a move would send the wrong signal and would essentially scupper Milan's hopes of competing for silverware next season.
"Thiago Silva is tough, tough, tough. It would be impossible to replace him but I guess it depends on the figure," said Cassano.
"You have to understand what you want to fight for next season. Without Thiago Silva the maximum we can compete for would be a Champions League qualification place.
"He's 50 per cent of the team, if Milan are doing this then they must be thinking of earning a lot of money.
"I, the ignorant me, would never let him go but the important thing is to know Milan's aims.
"Without him we can't fight for the title or the Champions League."
Cassano was also asked about whether or not fellow Milan forward Zlatan Ibrahimovic was angry about the proposed deal.
"I haven't spoken to Ibra in more than three weeks but if he's angry about the sale then he's right," added Cassano.
"When he says something it wll be very direct and he'll speak his mind.
"For Thiago it doesn't matter how big the figure is, you don't sell the best player in the world."
Silva has been a big hit in Italy since joining from Brazilians Fluminense in 2009.
The 27-year-old quickly established himself as one of the best centre-backs in Serie A and has become a regular for his country.
Only a year ago he extended his contract at Milan until June 2016 and his Italian club previously said he is not for sale.
But recently they have had their heads turned more than once by big money offers for their players.
In January 2009 they accepted a bid from Manchester City of more than &pound;100 million for Kaka only for the Brazilian to refuse to go.
But six months later he was shipped off to Real Madrid for 67 million euros.
In January this year Milan tried to sell Brazilian striker Alexandre Pato to Paris St Germain but again the player refused and they were forced to abandon the deal and then also pull out of their bid to sign Carlos Tevez from Man City.
Milan aren't the only Italian giants selling their brightest talents, though, as Inter Milan accepted a 50-million euro offer plus Samuel Eto'o from Barcelona for Zlatan Ibrahimovic three years ago.
And a year ago they sold Eto'o to Russians Anzhi Makhachkala for 28 million euros.
