It is an occurrence that most football fans would be familiar with: Manchester United making a late-season surge up the table, winning crucial matches, overtaking crumbling rivals and holding aloft yet another Barclays Premier League (BPL) trophy.
This season looks likely to be no different, as an eight-match winning run has pushed the Red Devils past long-time league leaders Manchester City, allowing them to top the BPL table with only six matches left.
How do they do it, season after season, decade after decade?
Man United goalkeeping great Peter Schmeichel, in Singapore for a series of activities as brand ambassador for lifestyle retail store Courts, was happy to reveal one or two secrets of the Red Devils' success during a one-on-one chat with my paper yesterday.
First, he credits the astute preparations of Man United manager Alex Ferguson.
Schmeichel, 48, an integral part of the club's title-winning sides in 1993, 1994, 1996, 1997 and 1999, said the Scot actually plans for the final title surge months beforehand.
The affable Dane added: "Early in the league season, people will sometimes question why Ferguson drops certain players and plays others.
"But all of this is planned, so that players can stay fresh and eager for football when the season comes down to the final few matches.
"I've seen rival clubs using the same players for every game until they get tired and lose form at the end of the season.
"Ferguson will not allow that to happen. In fact, he would send players on holidays or give them short breaks to let them recharge. That's something very few managers do."
Indeed, just two weeks ago, in the midst of a nerve-wracking BPL title tussle with Man City, Ferguson took his entire team up to Scotland for a short golfing break.
City, meanwhile, are enduring a poor run at the most inopportune period, as players who played superbly at the start of the season - such as Spanish playmaker David Silva - lose their form as football fatigue sets in.
The second secret that Schmeichel revealed boils down to how opponents perform whenever they face Man United.
"Because we are champions many times over, other teams always want to judge themselves against us.
So, they always play their best against us, whether it's the first game of the season or the last," he said.
"And so, the players get accustomed to such intense competitiveness, and will respond with consistent excellence throughout the season.
"You can see that City, when they were leading the table, were subsequently unprepared when clubs like Swansea and Sunderland played well against them, and lost points.
"They still have much to learn about being a top-class team, day in, day out."
The intense pressure to be consistently excellent, however, was what eventually forced Schmeichel to call it a day at Man United in 1999, after eight trophy-laden seasons.
The Dane went on to have playing stints with Sporting Lisbon and Aston Villa before ending his professional career with, ironically, Man City.
"Obviously, the culture of failure and underachievement is disappearing," he said of his final club.
"But the coming off-season will be a massively important moment for them. Do they stick with manager Roberto Mancini should they not win the title? And if he doesn't, will players join him in leaving?
"They need to manage the off-season astutely to move on and contend for the title again."
