She went under the Olympic 'B' qualifying mark (1:00.75) for the women's 100m butterfly when she posted a time of 59.14sec at the British Swimming Championships in March.
While not guaranteed a spot in the event at next month's Olympics - in London from July 27 to Aug 12 - she felt she had done enough to earn a ticket and didn't need to make the 'A' qualifying mark of 58.70.
As expected, Tao Li won her pet event at the inaugural South-east Asian (SEA) Swimming Championships at the Singapore Sports School on Friday, clocking 59.23.
The race was her final chance to make the 'A' qualifying mark, but Tao Li and her team were not alarmed by the pedestrian time as her preparation programme is designed to ensure she peaks in London.
And she will be there, according to Singapore Swimming Association president Jeffrey Leow, despite failing to qualify automatically by meeting the 'A' standard.
Speaking to The New Paper, Leow said: "The deadline is June 18, so we still have to give Fina (swimming's world governing body) time to pore over the data.
"But from what I've observed, at the moment, Tao Li has the third-best 'B' timing, behind New Zealand and China.
"And China already have two swimmers with 'A' timings, so I'm going to stick my head out and say Tao Li is 100 per cent certain of making the Olympics. There's no doubt about that."
Tao Li became the first Singapore swimmer to qualify for an Olympic final and finished fifth in the 100m butterfly at the 2008 Games in Beijing.
She set the national record at the Games when she clocked 57.54 in the heats.
While she has set her heart on winning a medal in London, her times since the 2008 Olympics have been poor.
After her latest swim, her coach, Ian Turner, said: "I'm happy with her performance today, that's not to say we don't want a bit more.
"But the thing is the more muscular swimmers are, the more rest they need.
"We still can work on her final 25 metres, but we are on track."
Malaysia coach Paul Birmingham didn't want to speculate whether the Singapore star could win a medal in London.
He said: "It's difficult to prepare for the Olympics because swimmers are trying to compete in other meets to improve timings ...
"As for Tao Li, she's got a history of succeeding, so we'll see."
Vietnam coach Dang Anh Tuan was more technical in his assessment of Tao Li's prospects.
He said: "Her first 50 metres are okay (27.30), but it seems that in the last 50 metres, her movement is too fast and she can't catch the water to propel her forward faster.
"To stand a good chance of winning an Olympic medal this time, you have to at least hit the 57sec mark. If she cannot peak in time to achieve such a timing, it will be tough for her to win something."
As for Tao Li, her sights are firmly fixed on reaching the final first.
She said: "From now, we will work on my back-end speed, which should be in the low 30sec, but today it was 31.8sec.
"Let's try to reach the final first before talking about medals."
On day three of the inaugural regional competition, Singapore added one gold, three silvers and three bronzes to boost their medal-leading tally to 11 golds, six silvers and seven bronzes overall.
Indonesia collected three golds yesterday, while Malaysia got two and Vietnam one.
Meanwhile, in the synchronised swimming events, Singapore struck gold in the technical team event, while Malaysia held off the hosts' challenge in the technical solo and technical duet events to win.
