BARCELONA - Moments after Pastor Maldonado became the first Venezuelan to win a Formula One race by triumphing at the Spanish Grand Prix on Sunday, he went on to play a heroic role in a dramatic blaze in his Williams team's garage.
Maldonado's win, in his 24th race, was also the team's first victory since the 2004 Brazilian Grand Prix and came on the weekend of team founder Frank Williams' 70th birthday.
But on a dramatic day for the Venezuelan driver, he was later pictured on Twitter carrying his young cousin to safety after the team garage was engulfed by flames.
A total of 16 people were injured - one with severe burns - when the fire, believed to have been caused by an electrical fault in a fuel rig, broke out.
Maldonado was forced to give his 12-year-old cousin Manuel - who was wearing a protective boot on a broken right foot following a recent accident - a piggyback ride down the pit lane to safety.
The youngster was photographed clutching the winner's trophy behind Maldonado's back - as thick, black smoke billowed down the pit lane at the Circuit de Catalunya.
"After today's Spanish Grand Prix, a fire occurred, in the team's garage, which originated from the fuel area," said a statement from the Williams team.
"Four team personnel were injured in the incident and subsequently taken to the circuit's medical centre.
Three are now undergoing treatment at local hospitals for their injuries, while the fourth has been released.
"The team will monitor their condition and ensure they receive the best possible care. The team, the fire services and the police are working together to determine the root cause of the fire and an update statement will be released in due course."
The Catalan regional government said that one person was airlifted to hospital with serious burns, while five others were taken to a local hospital suffering from the effects of smoke inhalation.
Ten more were treated at the circuit's medical centre.
On the track, Maldonado held off a challenge by two-time champion Fernando Alonso of Ferrari to win.
The Venezuelan driver said: "It's a wonderful day for me and the team. An unforgettable race.
We have worked and worked, and pushed so hard, and I knew this was going to be a tough race, but to have my first podium and my first win - you can just imagine the emotions."
Caterham, who have a garage adjacent to that of Williams, said that four of their staff had been taken to the medical centre for examination - one with a minor hand injury and three with respiratory issues.
Force India deputy team principal Bob Fernley said that one of his staff had suffered smoke inhalation.
The fire - with thick, acrid black smoke billowing out of the garage and across the paddock - started about 90 minutes after the end of the race.
Photographs also showed Brazilian Bruno Senna's car in the middle of the gutted and charred garage.
Maldonado's car had been parked elsewhere under post-race parc ferme rules.
Team officials and guests were ushered to safety and the area was cordoned off. A medical helicopter was seen taking off after a while.
The fire was the second in the F1 paddock in five races this season, with one breaking out in the Lotus hospitality area at the Malaysian circuit in March.
