Joseph Schooling is often mentioned alongside American swimming great Michael Phelps these days.
After all, the teenager - who turns 17 next Saturday - idolises the 14-time Olympic champion, and has surpassed the American's age-group (15-16 years) time over the 100 yards butterfly (short course) last December.
While Phelps' career is one that many swimmer will crave for, Joseph just wants to chart his own path, according to an episode on the sports documentary series Living the Dream, which airs tonight on ESPN.
In the show, Joseph said: "I don't think I've ever day-dreamed about Michael Phelps' career - but as far as his accomplishments go, I think everyone would love to have 14 gold medals at the Olympics, and I think over 20 golds at the world championships.
"But he's had his ups and downs, both in and out of the pool, and everyone will too because no one's perfect."
"I just want to make my own career for myself. Michael Phelps may be my idol, but I just want to make my own career," added the Bolles School student in Florida, who met Phelps when the American swim team was in Singapore in 2008 in preparation for the Beijing Olympics.
The Schooling episode, slated for the 8.30pm slot, is the second in an eight-part weekly series produced by ESPN STAR Sports, the official broadcaster for the London Olympics next month.
Singapore gymnast Lim Heem Wei and table tennis ace Feng Tianwei will be featured in future episodes.
While Phelps is Joseph's idol, the teenager calls someone else his hero.
He said: "My Olympic hero would be my grand-uncle Lloyd Valberg, who represented Singapore at the 1948 London Olympics.
"So it's pretty cool I'm going to London in 2012, since he went to London in 1948."
The late Valberg was among five Singaporeans who competed in the "Austerity Games" in 1948, the same year the International Olympic Committee recognised the Singapore National Olympic Council.
Said Joseph's coach Sergio Lopez in the show: "I really believe that if he wants to - and makes that decision to be one of the best.
"He could be one of the best - not just in the butterfly, but in all the events in the world for many years.
"My goal as a coach, before he goes to college, is to make him appreciate and understand his talent.
"And also it's important he understands he does this for himself, not for his parents, not his country but for himself."
