Among Jazreel Tan's collection of bowling balls is a bright-yellow one with a smiley face, which she's had since 2005.
But, by her own admission, the Wichita State University student looks fierce if she doesn't smile.
The 22-year-old said: "I don't smile that often and it has led to misunderstandings in the past, so my friends tell me to try to smile more."
These days, Tan has plenty of reasons to show off her pearly whites.
Last week, the kegler was named the female Amateur Bowler of the Year by the Bowling Writers' Association of America, along with the Most Valuable Player Award from the United States' National Collegiate Bowling Coaches Association.
She was also named as a first-team All-American for the third straight season.
But, for someone who has spent a decade honing her skills on the lanes, her love for the sport is not an overt one.
She muses: "There isn't one single thing that is keeping me in bowling, and sometimes I would say, 'I don't like the sport', or ask myself why I would even care.
"But I get really upset when I don't do well in competitions.
"My name is pretty big, but I don't really have that many achievements. There are probably more downs than ups in my bowling career so far."
While she banishes the occasional thought of quitting the sport quickly, a "what if" hangs over her head whenever she watches Singaporean swimmers in action.
The Tao Nan School alumnus was a backstroke and freestyle specialist in her primary school days before she gave up the sport to concentrate on her Primary School Leaving Examination.
She said: "I wasn't that bad as a swimmer. I was just behind (freestyle specialist Ho) Shu Yong and used to swim with Russell Ong."
She first took to the lanes in Secondary 1, after watching her elder brother Andrew bowl.
She recalled: "At first, I liked it because it was played in an air-conditioned environment, but I grew to like the sport itself.
"Bowling is so technical, even the best bowlers in the world still learn new things every day."
Tan soon rose to prominence with her strong fighting spirit, with Singapore Bowling Federation (SBF) president Jessie Phua once nicknaming her "chilli padi".
Says Jasmine Yeong-Nathan of her first impression of long-time friend and national teammate: "I remember her being small and cute, and a little 'fierce'.
"Her 'fierce' attitude has brought her real far in bowling.
She's determined and focused with that attitude that she has on the lanes and yet, she has a softer side to her off the lanes as well.
"She's bubbly and crazy, and a great roommate to have."
SBF technical director Mervyn Foo concurred.
The Wichita alumnus was the assistant national coach when Tan started bowling, and practically watched her grow up.
Stand-out bowler
Foo said: "She was already a stand-out bowler at her age. She was another Valerie Teo in the making.
"While she has always been sort of a 'silent killer', she's noisy and cheerful in front of her friends."
At age 14, Tan beat then-national bowler Teo in the women's step-ladder final in 2004 to become a national champion.
The Methodist Girls' School (Secondary) student then transferred to the Singapore Sports School when she was in Secondary 3.
After graduation, she went on to complete a diploma in sports management and exercise science from the Auckland University of Technology before heading to Wichita with a Singapore Sports Council education grant.
The 2008 and 2009 Sportsgirl of the Year said her US stint has done her good, both on and off the lanes.
She said: "I've learnt to be more independent and more vocal. I've also improved in my physical and mental game, becoming more calm mentally and making better decisions."
Added Yeong-Nathan: "I think studying in the US has taught her many things, such as how to see the game from another angle, how to work with teammates more effectively and being very aware of her surroundings to make the best out of the situation."
Foo added: "She used to be reserved before going to the States, but now she has more confidence to say and do things."
Tan will graduate in May next year, and plans to stay in the States to work or continue bowling.
She said: "I'm already here in the States, so I might as well try to bowl on Tour and, at the same time, continue representing Singapore."
