That boy was flying, and what a goal!
High praise from none other than the Dazzler V Sundramoorthy himself, who took the time to compliment Kelantan's Man-of- the-Match S Chanturu despite being on the losing side.
Starting on the right flank, the 24-year-old took LionsXII defenders Irwan Shah and Safuwan Baharudin on a wild ride last night with his speedy, tricky and incisive runs.
His crossing was superb too, picking out teammate Norfarhan Mohd before a number of cut-backs were wasted by his more profligate teammates.
But it was his spectacular scissor-kick that broke the visitors' resistance in the 73rd minute when he improvised to knock in Norshahrul Idlan Talaha's cross.
He told The New Paper: "It was a huge relief to score and win because we definitely don't want a Singaporean team to win the Malaysian Super League, and we showed why we are defending champions tonight."
Chanturu might have been the stand-out player, but Norfarhan and Norshahrul were also more than a handful for the LionsXII as they dovetailed delightfully upfront.
Take the second goal, for example.
The 27-year-old Norfarhan made a great run after Norshahrul dummied over the ball to latch on to Badri Radzi's through-ball and fire past Hyrulnizam Juma'at.
Despite not scoring, Norshahrul more than redeemed himself by creating two late goals after missing a fourth-minute penalty won by Norfarhan.
With a cheeky grin, he said: "Yes, it seems like we have a habit of leaving things late this season.
"I'm thankful for three points, especially after missing the penalty, but I hope we can get the job done earlier for future games.
"I don't feel good about missing the penalty, but the most important thing is we won with a good team performance, and I can sleep easy tonight."
Kelantan coach Bojan Hodak, who turned 41 yesterday, paid tribute to the attacking trio, saying: "They did very, very well tonight, and with players like them who can hold the ball and run at players with speed, we always have a chance to make things happen."
LionsXII skipper Shahril Ishak also singled out Kelantan goalkeeper Khairul Fahmi Che Mat, who made at least four crucial blocks in the first half to ensure a clean sheet.
He said: "He was the one who prevented us from taking the lead.
"Who knows what would have happened if we had scored?"
And to think that they still have the technical expertise of Lebanon striker Mohd Ghaddar to rely on when he comes back from suspension.
With the best attack (30 goals for) and defence (11 goals against), it is hard to look beyond the Red Warriors as league champions-elect this season.
