Holland 0 Denmark 1 (Michael Krohn-Dehil 24)
It was like watching Arsenal. Loads of possession, numerous wasted chances, and a one goal conceded.
I'm talking about Holland.
And speaking of Holland and Arsenal, where on earth was Robin van Persie?
The man in the No. 16 Orange shirt last night could not have been him.
The "imposter" shot wide from close range. His first touch ran away from him. He stumbled in the box and swung his boot through the air.
No, that couldn't have been the same 28-year-old who scored 26 goals in the English Premier League.
Denmark lined up at the Metalist Stadium Stadium in Kharkiv with no such individual statistics, no such talent.
No longer did they have the Laudrup brothers.
But, my, the sum of their "average" parts added up to quite a machine.
It brought the mighty Dutch, considered by many as tournament favourites after Spain and Germany, back down to earth.
Know why they call it the Group of Death? Holland will know the answer - they now probably have to beat Germany and Portugal in order to advance.
Bert van Marwijk, who bemoaned the "long grass" at the Metalist Stadium before kick-off, will bemoan his team selection straight after.
No complaints over 18-year-old PSV fullback Jetro Willems, the youngest ever player to feature in the European Championship.
But his team needed an old-fashioned centre forward, a fox in the box, a Klaas-Jan Huntelaar.
Instead, he went for the flamboyant van Persie, a link forward, as a target man. It might have paid off, but the Arsenal hero was on hiatus. And his team was forced to shoot from long range.
No problem for Danish custodian Stephan Andersen, in goal only because of the injured Thomas Sorenson.
Simon Poulsen drove deep into Dutch territory down the left. A deflection off his cross plays gave Michael Krohn-Dehli possession outside the box.
The Brondby forward sliced past Ron Vlaar into the box before firing right through Maarten Stekelenburg's legs.
You had to hand it to the Danes after that.
Maybe they didn't know how to shut shop and play like Chelsea. Maybe they just wanted to keep everyone entertained.
For the rest of the 66 minutes after their goal, they just let the Dutch dominate possession, and rode on any luck that came their way.
Well, it was Denmark's night. They finally defeated Holland in regulation time after 45 years.
Even with the 71st-minute introduction of Huntelaar, the football gods still smiled on them.
A glorious through pass from Wesley Sneijder, with the outside of his foot, put Huntelaar in on goal, but Stephan Andersen went down quickly to save at his feet.
Van Persie completed his wretched evening by fouling the goalkeeper in his follow-up.
Huntelaar and van Persie scored 37 goals each (in all competitions) last season.
Last night, their team created 28 attempts. They scored zero.
Oh well, at least Arsenal will be happy.
When contract talks with their Dutch talisman come around, the figures surely won't be too high now.
HOLLAND: Maarten Stekelenburg, Gregory van der Wiel (Dirk Kuyt 85), John Heitinga, Ron Vlaar, Jetro Willems, Mark van Bommel, Nigel de Jong (Rafael van der Vaart 71), Arjen Robben, Wesley Sneijder, Ibrahim Afellay (Klaas-Jan Huntelaar 71), Robin van Persie
DENMARK: Stephan Andersen, Lars Jacobsen, Simon Kjaer, Daniel Agger, Simon Poulsen, William Kvist, Niki Zimling, Dennis Rommedahl (Tobias Mikkelsen 84), Christian Eriksen (Lasse Schone 74), Michael Krohn-Delhi, Nicklas Bendtner
