POZNAN, POLAND - Croatia's impressive 3-1 win over Ireland, at the Municipal Stadium on Sunday, gave Slaven Bilic's team a head start in Group C, and was a refreshing reminder that there is more than one way to play the game well.
The attempt to emulate Barcelona and Spain's success with tiki taka - short-passing, rotating midfielders - has become something of a new tactical orthodoxy.
But it is debatable how effective the approach is for teams that lack the quality at the disposal of the style's founders.
Croatia do things differently and their approach could cause some headaches for group favourites Spain and Italy, who drew 1-1 in the earlier match on Sunday.
The character of Croatia's fiery coach, Bilic, was evident in the way his team set about attacking the Irish.
They played with passion, energy, toughness and a refreshing directness that is too often lacking in the modern game.
Direct football is sometimes a euphemism for the primitive, outdated "long-ball" game, but Croatia's immediacy is far from aimless and comes with intelligence, control and purpose.
The man who ensured that the waves of attacks did not simply become blind charges into the Irish defence was crafty midfield playmaker Luka Modric. His already-high stock is surely set to rise further in this tournament.
The Tottenham player has the astuteness to feel the tempo of the game and knows when it is the right moment to hold onto possession in midfield, and when it is time to feed the livewire striker pairing of Mario Mandzukic and Nikica Jelavic.
That was the role played so effectively by Zvonomir Boban in the Croatia team that burst onto the international scene for the first time as an independent nation, when they reached the semi-finals of the 1998 World Cup Finals in France.
There are some key similarities with that Croatia team - which featured Bilic in defence - particularly in the way fullbacks Ivan Strinic and Darijo Srna burst forward to support attacks, at times overwhelming the Irish.
Bilic has clearly been influenced by the 1998 team's charismatic coach, Miroslav Blazevic, not least in the way Bilic has his players fired up and motivated.
On the other hand, Spain's decision to play without a striker against Italy may have backfired, as they had to settle for a 1-1 draw.
There were raised eyebrows when the world and European champions' line-up was announced, and the names of strikers Fernando Torres and Fernando Llorente were missing.
The Spaniards, despite controlling possession, struggled for most of the game to penetrate the Italian back line, mainly because there was no one to break it down.
Coach Vicente del Bosque said: "What we wanted to do was look for superiority in the midfield and we know that (Francesc) Fabregas and (David) Silva have the ability to get into scoring positions.
"It didn't work out too badly, and Fabregas did some great work."
It was only when Torres was brought on 16 minutes from time that Spain's offensive game caught fire, even if the forward wasted two clear scoring chances.
He instantly drew two Italian defenders onto him, allowing his teammates far more space.
Spain should have added another goal after his introduction and walked away as winners in their opening game, but the draw was deserved for a Spanish team that would not have dared to play without a forward if David Villa was at the tournament.
And there was plenty in the Croatian display to concern the two favourites in the group.
Spain and Italy would be wise to prepare for a game played at a tempo that neither are comfortable with.
