The bar was packed, as football fans gathered to watch the first match of the Euro 2012 live.
As rain poured around the small tent at Charlie's Tapas, Grill &amp; Bar, at Boat Quay last Saturday, the fans huddled close together as they made room for newcomers, their eyes glued to the screen.
The match between Poland and Greece proved to be exciting, as fans gave half-shouts whenever the ball went off the post.
Michael Naglowski, 35, a banker, had reserved a table at the bar and was there at 9pm last night.
"It's a really nice place and it was easy to get a nice table here," he said.
"It's an important match to me as I'm a Poland fan, so the ambience had to be right." He had gone down with his colleagues, all bankers, most of whom supported Poland and expected them to win.
His colleague, Harsh Khandelwal, 34, said he came to spend time with his friends and watch the match with them.
"It's awesome," he said.
"I'm probably coming here for most of the matches with the rest of them again."
The group of them had cheered loudly when Poland scored the first goal of Euro 2012 in the first half and winced when Greece equalised in the second.
Samuel Copping-San, 25, said he decided to watch Euro 2012 at the bar because of his friends.
"I support Japan, but they're not playing in the Euro for obvious reasons, so I'm supporting Poland tonight," he said.
"It's like a group thing and I guess that's why we all support the same team.
"Another reason is that Poland's goalkeeper (Wojciech Szczesny) is from Arsenal and I support the Gunners."
But Athena Aranda, 28, who sat next to him, was rooting for Greece.
"Well, I'm supporting Greece because my name is Greek," she said.
Aranda confessed that she was not much of a football fan, but had decided to watch the match because her friends had managed to reserve a table at the bar in front of the screen.
"I'm also supporting Greece because everyone else here is supporting Poland, so it's just for the fun of it," she said.
At half-time, some fans rushed to the loo, while others refused to move in fear they might lose their spots in front of the screen.
Many had turned up in varying jerseys, while others like Khandelwal simply wrapped a Poland scarf around his neck.
When Poland scored the first goal, he was shouting and raising the scarf.
"It's the atmosphere, it's the friends here," he said.
"That's the best part of watching football I guess."
Even though the match ended in a draw, fans were still glad they had caught it at the bar.
"I would definitely be coming back here with my friends again, probably not so much on weekdays, but during the weekends we'll be here," said Khandelwal.
"And most definitely, I can tell you, we'll be here for the final."
