In the first three encounters, the sides that won are those which dared to keep possession, keep probing formidable defences, and keep stringing intricate passes until they find a breakthrough.
Portugal, Germany and Spain forced the issue in their respective quarter-finals, and were rewarded with great goals and utterly deserved victories.
In stark contrast, their opponents - Czech Republic, Greece and, disappointingly, France - were playing reactive football, where they defend stoutly, wait until they gain possession, and counterattack efficiently to exploit lapses by their opponents.
Proactive football v reactive football - this is traditionally the kind of scenario when a top-class football team meet a vastly inferior one.
The powerhouses attack proactively, the minnows defend reactively.
But, increasingly, even the talented sides sometimes employ reactive football, for fear that they are the ones who will be undone by a momentary lapse.
The Czechs and the French have shown in the group stages of Euro 2012 that they can play expansive football, retaining possession and attacking in waves against their opponents.
Yet, in the quarters, they were suddenly reactive - preferring to surrender possession to their opponents and spend most of the game repelling attacks.
Why the sudden switch to reactive football when they are obviously talented enough to force the issue?
Indeed, it is precisely because they are talented that they decide to play the percentages, believing that they can soak up all the opponents' attacks and hit them on the break swiftly.
Oh, and also because they fear.
Whether it is the Czechs' obsession to stop the whirlwind force that is Cristiano Ronaldo, or the French's nerves over dealing with Spain's much-vaunted midfield prowess, these teams decided that the best way to win is to frustrate.
In Europe, such a strategy has reaped great rewards.
Chelsea, for example somehow won this year's Champions League against all odds, beating the likes of Barcelona and Bayern Munich by playing reactive football.
So did Greece when they stunningly won Euro 2004 as rank outsiders, defending in numbers once they poached a goal to win 1-0 games with regularity.
They nearly stunned Germany last Friday, when they equalised at 1-1 with a great example of reactive football: gaining possession in their own half, setting their right winger free with a devastating pass and then scoring with just one more pass to the centre-forward.
Quick, incisive and efficient.
It can easily demoralise top teams, especially those who have squandered numerous chances during the game.
The Germans, of course, were made of sterner stuff, and recovered quickly to slam in three quick goals for an eventual 4-2 win. Not many teams have such mental fortitude, though.
Yet, reactive football is ultimately a more neutral name for negative football.
Yes, it requires strong organisation and mental and physical fortitude to be able to focus on defending for 90 minutes and then springing into attack at the snap of the fingers.
But it is also one that eschews the more beautiful aspects of football - the delightful passing, the artful flicks and the powerful strikes - that proactive football demands.
It is a high demand; not all teams can pass with the verve and splendour that Spain, Portugal and Germany can muster. But the great thing about football is that it can be done - with plenty of hard work.
It is the triumph of Euro 2012 that such football is prevailing, that these sides have found a way past the defensive walls of reactive football.
For fans want beautiful goals, not efficient ones. Let's hope they keep getting them.
hankeong@sph.com.sg
