They are paid a pittance and are consistently subjected to an avalanche of abuse, sometimes even physical violence.
But local referees are unlikely to go the route of their Malaysian counterpart Shokri Nor.
That was the verdict of the majority of match officials whom The New Paper spoke to.
Shokri, the man who officiated his country's showpiece football event last year - the Malaysia Cup final - was charged in Singapore on Thursday for attempting to rig the result of last Tuesday's match between LionsXII and Sarawak at Jalan Besar Stadium.
Said referee instructor and 15-year officiating veteran Suresh Nair: "Match-fixing is like prostitution, you can't eradicate it.
"But the punishments are so strict here that no referee will want to risk it.
"Especially when you have the CPIB (Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau) working round the clock."
Football Association of Singapore-recognised match official Adly Esmadi added: "No price, not even $20,000 or $30,000 would be worth it because not only will match-fixing affect your career on the pitch, it will also affect your full-time job off it.
"And referees don't do the job for the money any way. If we did, we would be doing something else. "It's a passion, not a profession."
Referees in the S-League get an allowance of $150 per match while in the National Football League (NFL), they are paid $50 a game.
Shokri was offered RM15,000 ($6,063) to influence the result of the Malaysian Super League match which the LionsXII won 3-0.
Another match official, Erza Aripin, understood the temptation that people such as the 47-year-old Shokri could succumb to.
Said the NFL referee who has been officiating since 2007: "I definitely don't agree with it or condone it, but I can understand how some people might be taken in by the temptation.
"Sometimes in a moment of weakness, someone who gets little pay and a lot of abuse, regardless of whether he gets a decision right or wrong, might consider taking the easy money."
Just like officials may be tempted by the lure of easy cash, match-fixers target the men in black because they are easy targets.
Said former Fifa referee Francis Lee: "Fixers will try every means possible to manipulate matches and refs are easy targets because they don't get much from officiating and may not earn much in their regular jobs."
He added that referees were also the best persons to rig matches because more than anyone on the pitch, they have the power to manipulate the outcome of a game.
Said Lee: "It's the referees who give the penalties and make the decisions which can change a game.
"It's easy for them to affect the outcome, and it's not easy to for most people to spot it."
Nair disagreed, saying: "It's easy to catch (corrupted officials) because they are the ones making the decisions which can determine the result."
The 57-year-old is adamant that the S-League is doing a good job in deterring match officials from accepting bribes as those who do are dealt with severely.
There have not been many instances of referees being caught for influencing matches in the past two decades although eight-month sentences were handed out to T Rajamanickam and R Rajandran for separate match-fixing incidents in 1994 and 1998 respectively.
However, a former referee who declined to be named, told TNP that the spectre of match-fixing still looms large in local football.
He said: "There are still a lot of match-fixers like Wilson Raj Perumal around.
"And sometimes refs can get away with putting their hands up and saying they made a mistake.
"What can you do about it? It's hard to drop referees for making mistakes when there are so much demand for their services but so little supply.
"I think that just like players who are put through random polygraph tests, so should referees."
