OMAHA, Nebraska - Michael Phelps's plans for his Olympic finale will be clarified in the crucible of the US Olympic swimming trials, but until then, Phelps himself is giving nothing away.
Phelps entered seven events in the eight-day meeting that begins on Monday in Omaha's 13,200-seat CenturyLink Center, but as of Saturday he wouldn't confirm if he actually planned to race the first event on his docket - Monday's 400m individual medley.
Phelps has won it at the last two Olympic Games, but after Beijing vowed never to swim the punishing event again in major competition.
If he changes his mind, the first event of the trials could offer a first showdown between Phelps and Ryan Lochte, who last year emerged from Phelps's shadow with five titles at the World Championships in Shanghai - including 200m freestyle and 200m individual medley victories over Phelps.
Lochte put his name down for a whopping 11 events at the trials, which do not include relays, but he, too, wasn't quite certain what he would swim.
"The 200m IM, 400 IM, 200 free, 200 back - I know I'm doing those four," Lochte said, laughing a little as he added: "I guess the other seven we'll decide later."
After his exploits in Shanghai, Lochte said he felt capable of matching Phelps's historic tally of eight golds in one Games, but he insisted Saturday he hadn't set that as his target for London.
"I know eight is possible," Lochte said. "I'm not going for a number. I'm going to step on the blocks and race as many times as my body can handle it."
The rivalry between Phelps and Lochte - welcomed by both as a lure for sports fans but also downplayed as a motivational force - is a key theme in this year's trials, a notoriously demanding meeting in which only the top two finishers in each event book individual Olympic berths.
"For all of them, it's as simple as this: When you swim your event there's only two hands that are going to make a difference - the first and second hands that touch the wall," USA Swimming national team director Frank Busch said.
"You could call it a high-stakes poker game or whatever you want to call it but it boils down to the first two hands on the wall are going, for the majority of events."
Tyler Clary, aiming to optimize his chances, said he would skip the 200m individual medley featuring Phelps and Lochte - the former and current world record holders who between them own the top nine performances ever posted in the event.
"Realistically, I'm probably not going to be able to place myself in the top two," said Clary, who said he would focus that day on the 200m backstroke.
Silver medallist behind Lochte in the 400m medley in Shanghai, Clary will be seeking to make his first Olympic team after failing to get through in his first trials in 2008.
"It was very disappointing, looking up and seeing that you got third when the top two go - it hurts," Clary said, adding, "That was that much more fire for me over the last four years."
Those vying to make a first Olympics team also include Missy Franklin, whose three gold, one silver and one bronze at the World Championships saw her named FINA's female swimmer of the year for 2011.
The 17-year-old from Colorado is entered in five events, as is Olympic veteran Natalie Coughlin.
Dara Torres, 45, is entered in the 50 free, where she'll try to make a sixth Olympic team.
Breaststroker Brendan Hansen's comeback, and that of freestyle great Janet Evans after an even longer hiatus, will also be put to the test this week.
But Phelps remains the star attraction, his well documented struggles in the wake of his Beijing triumphs adding an air of suspense to an Olympic campaign that he says will be his last.
Phelps admits he's had to play catch up to Lochte and others after slack training following Beijing. He said he believes intense work since last year - including increased altitude training -have been enough.
"I'm a lot more confident now than I was," Phelps said. "I tried to get away with faking as much as I could, and I saw the results were pretty crappy. I think I have been able to do things that are hopefully going to be able to show good results this week."
