SINGAPORE - Theirs is the old-fashioned tried-and-tested pyramid approach.
It is not about picking promising individuals and grooming them into stars.
It is mainly about building a large base of players, making them enjoy the game and sieving out the elite to form the apex, from where champions automatically arrive.
That is the aim of the popular Tanglin Tennis School (TTS) at Minden Road, for which the enrolment response has been so good that Elvin Chee, the brains behind the school and designated head coach, is looking for a bigger site with more courts.
And Chee, a former national trainee who studied at the University of Central Arkansas in the United States, and broadened his knowledge of tennis there, also believes in the overall growth of the child beyond the courts.
Armed with a United States Professional Tennis Association certificate, Chee has been coaching since 1994 after his graduation from Arkansas.
Driven by pure passion, he says: "Character building in children is of utmost importance. And we encompass that important trait by creating more junior tournaments, locally and internationally."
Currently 400 kids, from the ages of four to 16, are enrolled at the school which has four courts.
Both the Singapore Sports Council and the Singapore Tennis Association (STA) have endorsed their programmes.
Chee says that juniors go through four stages, namely, technique; introduction to tournament play and repetition drills, enhancing level to tournaments; and the elite.
TTS also develops competitive junior players as feeders to the STA National Programme.
Broadly, it also develops a coaches' education programme and helps local coaches in their careers.
But the focus on juniors is the prime target, with regular competitions for them.
TTS also has a tie-up with Brothers Tennis Academy, a reputed school in Taipei headed by Shao Hung-yu, once a member of the Taiwan Davis Cup squad.
Apart from regular sparring sessions with the academy, TTS juniors are also sent for attachments there mainly during school holidays.
Quick Start Tennis is a popular programme at the school where the kids play with bigger tennis balls on smaller courts.
Among the local and foreign kids the school has produced are: Tim Gauntlett (8 years), Wu Ssu Yi (12), Yu Hua Chen (11), Sam Gauntlett (11), Natasha Loh and Nadine Loh (both 11) and Celeste Li and Carlyne Li (9).
Twins Natasha and Nadine, both from Methodist Girls' School, have been with the school for three years and they have made marked improvement.
The duo, encouraged by their dad Andrew, have been to Taiwan and compete occasionally in ATP junior events regionally.
They have benefited greatly from their training sessions four times a week, twice at school and twice at Tanglin.
Chee's target is for the school to have its own tennis centre with more courts, so that from fun tennis, the kids could graduate into the elite squad and play at more international tournaments.
