His young team have won over neutral fans this season with their brand of quick, attacking football.
But Harimau Muda coach Ong Kim Swee is concerned that the spectre of match-fixing will take away the gloss of his team's performances.
Former S-League players Kim Jae Hong and Jeon Byung Euk were convicted of match-fixing last Friday, after trying to influence the league match between the Malaysian team and Geylang United last Thursday.
Harimau Muda beat Geylang 2-0 at the Jalan Besar Stadium and are second in the 13-team table, while the Eagles are last with seven points.
Said Ong:"We have been doing so well in the league, then something like this happens... and people start talking, wondering.
"It takes away a bit of the impact of what we've achieved."
The coach, who also leads the Malaysian national Under-23 side, was shocked and surprised at the news, sentiments shared by members of the football fraternity contacted by The New Paper yesterday.
Ong said: "For me, it's damn bloody stupid if you've been taken care of - you get your salary, win bonuses and anything else you can ask for on time - and you get involved (in match-fixing).
"It just brings shame on those involved and their families."
Tampines Rovers coach and former Singapore international Steven Tan added: "I'm shocked, mainly because ex-players were involved.
"In previous cases, it was bookies approaching players, but now it seems they're getting ex-players to do the dirty job... it's something new."
Former Hougang United player and ex-Lion Ratna Suffian said: "I was kind of shocked because I was playing against them just last season."
"But, in all my years in the S-League, I've never had doubts about whether any games I played in were fixed," added Ratna, who has featured in the local professional league since 1998.
He retired at the end of last season and now teaches physical education at ITE College East.
Most people TNP spoke to praised Geylang goalkeeper and veteran S-League player Yazid Yasin for blowing the whistle on the two South Koreans.
Ratna said of his former Woodlands Wellington teammate: "Yazid should be commended for his actions, for knowing what's right and what's wrong.
"In this game, there are crooked players, but there are equally as many righteous players.
"Yazid is one of the truly righteous ones."
Tanjong Pagar United captain and national player Delwinder Singh said: "I don't really know him, but Yazid has my utmost respect for making the decision to stop the match-fixers.
"He is a true professional."
Gombak United chairman John Yap said: "The actions taken were careful, correct and send out a good message to the match-fixers to think twice before conducting their affairs in the S-League."
Clubs are taking steps to remind their players of their responsibilities in the wake of the convictions.
Yap said the Jurong West-based club's management will meet this week to decide the next course of action, while Tan and Ong added they would talk to their players.
Balestier Khalsa vice-chairman S Thavaneson, who spoke to his players about the incident last Friday, said: "Those who strive to influence the matches will normally approach players at their weakest, such as when they have financial problems.
"We always tell our players that whatever problems they have, go to the club. Don't fall into the trap."
The latest "kelong" incident, the first conviction since 2008, has not dampened the confidence in the S-League's integrity for most people.
Delwinder said: "It's the first case in quite some time and, as professional players, we already know the do's and don'ts.
"I am very sure that the league wouldn't be too affected because of this."
Ratna added: "The authorities have been keeping a close watch on match-fixing and looking into anything that has a tinge of suspicion."
But this saga has brought up Ong's guard. He said: "It creates a bit of paranoia (among coaches) because you can't look after the players 24 hours a day.
"The authorities and teams have to be aware of match-fixing all the time. It will never stop."
