Attention, new Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers: Robbie Fowler is available for signing.
The former Liverpool star striker, now 37, suggested jokingly yesterday that Rodgers should sign him as he is free of contracts after playing the past season for Thai Premier League side Muangthong United.
In all seriousness, the new Reds manager - tasked to rejuvenate the club after seasons of mediocrity - is highly unlikely to consider signing someone nearing the end of his footballing career, even if it is Fowler, who starred for Liverpool from 1993 to 2001, scoring 183 goals.
However, the Liverpool-born footballer is still keen to help out his hometown club in whichever way possible.
"Whether it is in an ambassadorial role, or perhaps a coaching role, I'm available for Liverpool," said the Englishman, who is in Singapore for a series of promotional activities for lifestyle retail store Courts.
"I still have a deep passion for the club and, if Brendan needs me for any sort of role, I'll be up for it."
While supportive of the new manager, Fowler also felt a tinge of sadness over previous manager Kenny Dalglish, who was sacked two weeks ago after a season in which the Reds finished eighth in the Barclays Premier League.
"He is someone I've always loved, whether as a player or manager for the club," he said of the club legend.
"I think the results weren't as bad as people made them out to be, considering that Liverpool also won the League Cup and reached the FA Cup final.
"I think Kenny should have been given another season but, obviously, the owners think otherwise."
With the European Championship starting on Friday, the former England international will also be watching with interest England's progress in the tournament.
After a poor World Cup Finals showing in South Africa two years ago, not many are predicting England to advance deep into Euro 2012.
Does this mean less pressure on the players? Fowler does not think so.
He said: "There are always massive expectations within England for the national team to do well. The pressure will always be there.
"This current squad, to be honest, do not seem to have what it takes to win it. That doesn't mean the English fans expect anything less."
Fowler is the first of two BPL footballers that Courts is bringing to Singapore this week. Manchester City captain Vincent Kompany will be in town on Friday for a meet-and-greet fan session at Courts Orchard.
