As goal after goal after goal bulged the Jalan Besar Stadium net, LionsXII coach V Sundramoorthy gradually allowed himself to retire from the touchline back into the dugout in the second half.
Four, five, six... the game was already safe long before his young charges decided to stop at a record-breaking 9-0.
Job done, the 46-year-old could afford to relax and reminisce about the good old days, when he was part of the 1993 Dream Team.
Remember scorelines such as Singapore 8 Brunei 0 or Singapore 7 Sabah 3?
The Dazzler, who delivered that iconic bicycle-kick against Brunei and grabbed a brace against Sabah 19 years ago, told The New Paper: "It's great they erased our old mark of 8-0 against Brunei and made history for themselves.
"Of course, that (8-0 against Brunei) was special to me because we played in front of tens of thousands, but now people will also remember the Class of 2012."
For Fandi, Sundram and Malek, read Agu, Shahdan and Hariss.
Fine, Agu Casmir will never be able to replace Fandi Ahmad.
But the Nigeria-born striker scored one and made three Saturday night, in what must be one of his best-ever performances at the Jalan Besar Stadium.
Shahdan Sulaiman, while not as skilful as his coach Sundram, staked his claim as the country's most classy playmaker when he chested and lobbed Casmir's cross past Sabah goalkeeper Irwan Jamil.
He got his second in the 65th minute, tapping home from close range after some superb team play involving Casmir and Juma'at Jantan.
Hariss, who has the industry of Malek, plundered three to become LionsXII's first-ever hat-trick hero.
The 21-year-old promptly dedicated the matchball to his dad as a Father's Day gift, and also hoped it served to restore some faith after the national team's recent 2-0 defeat by Malaysia.
He added: "Of course it is not nice for any team to be beaten 9-0, but we had to be professional as we still have hopes for the title, so we want to keep up the pressure on Kelantan."
Such hunger and ruthlessness meant eight out of the 13 LionsXII outfield players who played last night were involved in creating or scoring the nine goals, making it a special occasion for the 6,289 fans.
While it remains highly unlikely that the LionsXII will win the MSL title on their debut season - ironically the 1993 Dream Team finished second in Division Two - they can hold their heads high knowing they are history makers.
And there's no doubt in Kadir Yahaya's mind that Singapore has a new Dream Team to support.
The 44-year-old assistant coach said: "I'm as surprised as you with the scoreline.
"If you remember, I said before the season that this team have the potential to become the next Dream Team.
"But we will make sure they won't get carried away because we still have a job to do against Terengganu on Tuesday."
LIONSXII: Hyrulnizam Juma'at 7, Madhu Mohana 7.5, Baihakki Khaizan 8, Sevki Sha'ban 7.5, Shakir Hamzah 7.5 (Shaiful Esah 67) 8, Hariss Harun 9, Isa Halim 7.5, Juma'at Jantan 7.5 (Yasir Hanapi 78), Shahdan Sulaiman 9, Irwan Shah 8, Agu Casmir 8.5 (Sufian Anuar 73) 8
SABAH: Irwan Jamil, Mafry Balang, Sumardi Hajalan (Ronny Harun 16, Zulmansshah Aling 46), Brendan Gan (Leopold Otong 80), Zuraindey Jumai, Hendrik Helmke, Alto Linus, Rosdin Wasli, Shahrul Azhar, Shahrudin Yakup, Zainizam Marjan
