Believe it or not, Pep Guardiola would be a worthier heir to the Old Trafford throne than the pundits' favourite Jose Mourinho.
While it is difficult to say who's the right person for the job at Manchester United, Guardiola gets the nod ahead of his current La Liga adversary.
Simply because you've got to have respect from the footballing world if you are to manage the Red Devils.
United are a global club and they've got a good name to uphold.
In that sense, Mourinho, with his antics and reactions from the bench, would not fit the mould of a United manager.
Guardiola, on the other hand, conducts himself well, and is well respected.
His credentials also speak for themselves.
The soon-to-be ex-Barcelona manager won 13 titles in his four years at the Catalan club - surely that showcases his talent as a manager.
Plus, the 41-year-old would be in sync with United's tradition of bringing players up from their academy.
Guardiola is a strong advocate of youth, having come through the ranks of Barcelona's La Masia himself.
The Spaniard did some fantastic work with the Barcelona B team - seen when he guided them to promotion to the Segunda Division B within a year - and that eventually got him the hotseat at the Nou Camp.
But the best part would be that he will be given time at Old Trafford.
Look at Sir Alex, he was afforded the luxury of time to reshape his team, and even had United sliding backwards before they eventually clicked into gear.
Today, the club are reaping dividends from their patience in the Scot, and I foresee Guardiola would be given the same treatment to build his own legacy.
This is also precisely the reason he should not pick Chelsea.
Should he sign the contract at Stamford Bridge, people will be asking when he will go, rather than how long he will last.
If he doesn't deliver the results quickly, like how the recent Chelsea managers have failed to do, he's not going to last long.
With that, I think the Blues hotseat would be the wrong choice for a young manager like Guardiola.
Indeed, Sir Alex has also made it clear that he does not intend to retire any time soon, a point that could be reinforced if United slip up at the Etihad Stadium on Tuesday morning (Singapore time), in order to have another crack at the title.
Plus, Guardiola will also have to revamp his coaching style and methods to fit United and the Premier League.
But if he chooses wisely enough, he could very well be the man to bring the Red Devils forward.
