The Republic of Ireland are going home - and not a moment too soon.
Perhaps Euro 2012 can now return to being a football tournament and not a charity appeal for the downtrodden Irish.
Roy Keane is right to savage his countrymen on the pitch and question those in the stands.
The diddly-dee, red-cheeked, jovial, happy-go-lucky, plucky underdog routine is as tiresome as Ireland's terrible display against Spain on Friday morning (Singapore time).
According to some romanticised match reports, Spain's 4-0 slaughter was like drowning a litter of kittens.
Euro 2012 will now be deprived of all that Gaelic colour and ginger leprechaun beards.
How could Spain do this to the tournament's cuddly teddy bears?
The short answer is that the Republic of Ireland were spectacularly awful; bearing closer resemblance to a pub team nursing hangovers than a professional squad worthy of inclusion in Europe's finest football tournament.
Yet a match report in yesterday's Daily Telegraph referred endearingly to the promise of a "miracle"; how "dreamers" hoped for a fairytale of Buster Douglas -beating-Mike Tyson proportions, why the Irish players "deserved sympathy" and how the contest "sadly" turned into a practice match.
No one, to my knowledge, wrote so whimsically or wistfully when Russia dismantled the Czech Republic 4-1, a result just as damaging to the Czechs.
But Ireland have long been judged by different, less critical rules, hiding instead behind outdated cliches concerning Gaelic gallantry and their fervent hopes of playing David to anyone else's Goliath.
As a furious Keane pointed out Friday, the Republic of Ireland are not San Marino.
With the exception of Sean St Ledger, who plays for Leicester City, their back four and goalkeeper all ran out in the English Premier League last season.
They are minnows when compared to Spain, sure, but then only Germany and perhaps the Italians stand tall beside the Spaniards.
And yet, the Irish appear to wallow in their own martyrdom and lay down so cheaply - and expectedly - for superior opponents.
This lackadaisical, lacklustre willingness to merely make up the numbers has infuriated Keane for more than a decade.
"I think the players and even the supporters, they all have to change their mentality.
"It's just nonsense from players speaking after the games about how great the supporters are," he said on Friday.
"Listen, the supporters want to see the team doing a lot better and not giving daft goals away like that. I'm not too happy with all that nonsense."
After a 4-0 debacle, the Irish applauded their supporters and the fans reciprocated.
It was as if the football had briefly got in the way of the holiday jaunt. Spain came to play. Ireland came to party. Spain will continue to play.
Ireland will continue to party.
A change in mentality is required, both on and off the pitch.
Ireland must rein in the backslapping for merely appearing at a tournament and spare themselves the patronising applause after being thoroughly outplayed, outfought and out-thought in one of the most one-sided embarrassments in recent memory.
Just turning up at a party to please fickle supporters is Paris Hilton's job.
Ireland's job is to win - or at least compete in - the odd football match.
Rather than be inspired, the Irish are indulged like an unfit kid on school sports day given a medal for finishing last.
At a tournament that has excelled thus far, the comforting hugs for Ireland felt like unwanted tributes to mediocrity.
And it'll be worse at the next European Championship.
Uefa president Michel Platini's decision to pursue cash rather than common sense will see the tournament extended to 24 teams. That will only dilute its unique quality.
Ireland will probably return once more.
Should they qualify again, both footballers and fans must shake off the tedious "luck of the Irish" tag, reject the role of underdogs, consider the tournament to be more than just a party and seek to join the profession of winning.
Persistent talk that the bright, bubbly banter of Ireland's supporters will be remembered fondly at Euro 2012 misses the point entirely.
No one will remember their football team.
