The match should have gone to a rubber, but Xing Aiying didn't have the courage she showed in the quarter-finals on Friday.
That was what Singapore's national singles head coach Luan Ching said after Xing's loss to Taiwan's Cheng Shao-chieh in the Li-Ning Singapore Open women's singles semi-final on Saturday evening.
The 22-year-old was the first Singaporean women's singles shuttler to make the last four of a Badminton World Federation Super Series tournament, but lost 23-21, 21-7 to Cheng in 31 minutes at the Singapore Indoor Stadium.
Sitting alongside Xing and Cheng at the post-match media conference, Luan said: "Regardless of the result, it should have been a three-game match. The court conditions were favourable for Aiying in the first game.
"That, together with the fact that she was trying to get into her rhythm, allowed her to catch up in the later part of that game.
"There was a chance for her to take that game, but she lacked the courage that she showed in the quarter-finals."
Xing, who hung her head low as soon as her coach started speaking, said earlier: "Of course I am disappointed to lose, but I didn't give up trying to catch up with her, even in the second game.
"But she played better, and even up till the final point, I hadn't learned how to play against her."
The world No. 49 was playing against the 13th-ranked Cheng for the first time on Saturday.
Despite the frank critique, Luan said Xing, who was out for four months in 2010 due to an ankle injury, has a long career ahead of her.
He said: "We've discussed her courage issue for about a year now and I've told her not to look down on herself.
"She was a bit lost last year but she improved in the last six months. She is just 22 years old. Hopefully her recent results will give her some confidence for the future."
Cheng will meet Juliane Schenk in the final today. The German beat South Korean Sung Ji Hyun 21-11, 20-22, 21-12 in the other semi-final on Saturday.
In the men's singles, China's Wang Zhengming won the battle of the former world junior champions when the 2008 winner beat Denmark's Viktor Axelsen - the victor two years ago - 21-13, 21-14 played in his first SuperSeries final on Sunday.
Wang beat Axelsen in the quarter-finals here last year, but lost to eventual winner and compatriot Chen Jin in the semi-finals.
Wang said: "I've matured quite a bit since last year's competition, but I didn't think that much about how far I would go in this competition."
He will meet Boonsak Ponsana in today's final. The Thai won the 2007 Singapore Open and will be competing in his fourth men's singles final here.
The Thai world No. 32 beat Vietnam's world No. 11 Nguyen Tien Minh 21-12, 18-21, 21-19 in the other semi-final.
