In a star studded episode of CNN's Open Court, host Pat Cash catches up with youngest Grand Slam winner Michael Chang.
They discuss Chang's historic win against Sweden's Stefan Bengt Edberg in the French Open in 1989, when Chang was just 17. His unexpected underhanded serve is still etched in tennis fan's memories.
Over a short game of tennis, Chang also talks about his 14-month old daughter saying she's almost old enough hold a tennis racket.
Chang reveals a bit about his pizza restaurant and more in this interview with CNN. Below is an excerpt from and a video clip of the interview:
Chang: I'm 5 feet 9 inches (1.75 meters) with shoes. But people say, well, he cannot compare me to, you know, like Lleyton or Rafa, but Rafa's tall.
Cash: I think if you're going to be small these days, you've got to be as fast as you are.
So '89 French Open was the one that, certainly, I - when you came to the attention of the world. And you found yourself in the fifth set battle, cramping. At what stage were you when you decided you were in real trouble?
Chang: And my mentality was, well, you know, who am I kidding here? How am I going to beat Lendl if I don't have my legs, which are, you know, one of my greatest assets that - on the tennis court?
So you know, I get to the - to the service line and I get an unbelievable conviction, you know, just a conviction in my heart.
And I was like, well, I'm just going to call it a day. And it dawned on me that, you know, if I were to just quit right then and there, every other difficult time that I have on the court is just going to make it that much easier to quit.
You know, win, lose or draw, I had to finish the match.
So I was like at 15 - 30, I was like, you know what, just spur of the moment, not even much of a thought. I said, I'm just going to throw in and serve here.
Chang: And you can see Ivan, you know, going back to the baseline... it just became a mental battle.
Cash: And then history's written. You're the youngest player ever to win the - win a grand slam.
Chang: Are you hungry?
Cash: I am, yes.
Chang: Are you hungry for something - maybe some pizza?
Cash: Yes, why?
Chang: I got a little - we have a little family-owned pizza restaurant. You think it would be a Chinese restaurant, but it's actually a pizza restaurant.
Cash: Great.
Chang: I've got a couple more days before - I've got a couple more days. So will my tennis get better after 40?
Cash: No, it's only downhill after that, I'm afraid.
