The new book on Tiger Woods by former coach Hank Haney - The Big Miss - has created waves around the golfing world.
To the ire of Tiger, Haney lets loose on the inside story of golf's greatest superstar, sparing no details on both his admiration and bewilderment of his student.
After reading the book in one night, The New Paper's Sports Editor S Murali picks out the many sides of Tiger that emerge from this fascinating account.
Exaggerated or not, it makes for compelling reading.
Hank Haney first meets Tiger Woods as a 17-year-old amateur. Though he would go on to coach him only years later, his first impressions are telling.
He describes that first meeting as finding a "sleepy", "slouching, bored teenager", who surprises him with his "insolence".
Wrote Haney: "I'm an adult, a trusted friend of his hosts, and own the establishment he's visiting, but he doesn't care enough to engage me in the least, and it makes the vibe uncomfortable."
In their second coaching session, with Tiger coming off a poor performance at the Bay Hill Invitational in 2004, Haney said he realised he was dealing with a student like none other.
Tiger "barely acknowledged" him at the range, giving him the cold shoulder, wrote Haney. "It was my first test.
The message Tiger wanted to send was clear: 'When I play bad, when I don't win, it's your fault'."
Tiger would never speak to Haney or caddie Steve Williams first in the mornings, something the two would joke to each other about.
Writes Haney: "Steve told me that before one round, he was going to make a point of not being the one to speak first after he met Tiger on the practice tee.
"Steve has a lot of willpower, but after 20 minutes, he finally broke down and said something. And Tiger answered him like everything was normal."
Even when it comes to meals, Tiger shows this side to his character, writes Haney. "Self centredness went with the territory.
Whenever I joined Elin (Tiger's then wife) and Tiger for a meal at their home, the moment Tiger finished, he simply got up and left without a word.
"If you were with him in a restaurant, when he was done - and he habitually ate fast - you were done."
Haney says he is surprised that as dominant a player as Tiger was, he was plagued with a lot of fears about his golf swing.
And the "biggie", according to Haney, was that Tiger "played the driver with a lot of fear".
Wrote Haney: "Tiger's basic strategy with the driver was to play away from the side of the hole with the most trouble, even if it meant going into the rough. Generally, he favoured missing to the right, because a pushed or faded shot would land more softly than a hook and have less chance of bouncing into a really bad spot."
After getting some advice to put more weight on his left foot at address while putting from good friend Mark O'Meara, Tiger practises it before the first round of the 2007 US Masters.
When he finds it not working on the practice green, he asks Haney for a fix. Writes Haney: "He tried it for a few minutes, but as he left to go to the range, he told me quietly but in a hard tone: 'You better f****** figure something out before we get back here'."
Haney describes how Tiger likes to bet for push-ups in his social games, which sometimes left his victim "sore for days afterwards".
Haney wrote: "The push-up bet started after Tiger admitted he couldn't feel nervous playing for money. But the pain from hundreds of push-ups raised the stakes."
Haney writes that Tiger's biggest push-up matches were against the son of a member at his home course in Isleworth, an amateur named Corey Carroll who was aged 11 years younger than the superstar.
"The standard bet was 150 push-ups per stroke, with payment to be collected by midnight. Tiger loved to 'collect', usually laughing as he stood over the loser.
But he sometimes lost, once having to pay Corey with 600 push-ups."
Tiger loved to use one-lines with the media of the "Clint Eastwood/Terminator variety", writes Haney.
At the 2006 Accenture Matchplay, fellow pro Stephen Ames is less than complimentary in describing his chances against Tiger, suggesting that "anything can happen, especially where he's hitting it".
Tiger wins by going 9-up after 10 holes, and when asked to comment on the round, just says "Nine and eight".
Haney says Tiger likes quiet workers like Jim Furyk and Steve Stricker while disliking "loud" players like Ian Poulter.
Once, when Poulter arrived unannounced to hitch a ride on Tiger's plane, the American sends Haney a message that reads "Can you believe how this d*** mooched a ride on my plane?"
After winning the 2005 Buick Invitational, wife Elin suggests to Tiger that they celebrate, as it is his first win since their wedding and that was what her former employer and Tour player Jesper Parnevik used to do.
Tiger's reply, according to Haney? "E (Elin), that's not what we do. I'm not Jesper. We're supposed to win."
Haney describes Tiger as a "competitive bully" - someone who would regularly give his fellow pros the cold shoulder treatment, especially if they were trying to be friendly or say something nice.
Writes Haney: "By contrast, Vijay Singh never tried to ingratiate himself with Tiger, and it was part of why Tiger seemed to give him more respect than his other rivals."
Haney teaches Tiger a routine of hitting Nine Shots during practice with each of his clubs.
Writes Haney: "It was simply a distillation of the nine ways a ball could be moved based on three curves (straight, starting left/moving right, starting right/moving left) and three trajectories (low, medium and high), yielding nine combinations."
Tiger would start with the sand wedge and work his way through the bag, only avoiding doing the same on the "draw-proof" driver.
Calling Tiger the best ball striker of all time, Haney says that he sometimes would watch his student hitting those Nine Shots and feel "honoured just to watch".
"Sometimes Tiger would raise himself into that zone when he wanted to impress another player.
"After briefly acknowledging the player, Tiger would shift into another gear.
"Sometimes a shot would draw an audible 'Whoa!'. When we were alone again, I'd say to Tiger, 'Sending a little message there, huh?'. He'd just smile."
Before the final round of the 2006 Deutsche Bank tournament, Tiger calls Haney, who couldn't be there due to family matters.
Trailing Vijay by three shots despite shooting a 67, Tiger tells Haney that "as good as Vijay is playing, I can't beat him if I hit it that way tomorrow".
Haney tells Tiger what to work on in front of his mirror, prescribing an hour of drills. Tiger called him the next morning and said that he spent a total of four-and-a-half hours in front of the mirror.
He shoots a 63 in the final round to win by three shots.
Haney claims he never knew anything about Tiger's philandering.
"As I reflected back, I realised that I'd never thought of Tiger as happy. Whether with friends, business associates, other players, his mother or his wife - indeed with just about everyone except an audience of kids at one of his clinics - he seemed to keep the atmosphere around him emotionally arid.
"Part of it was the insane drive that was vital to his greatness."
