LONDON - Blackburn manager Steve Kean claims French defender Gael Givet refused to play in his side's 3-0 Premier League defeat against Swansea.
Givet, who is expected to leave Ewood Park in the close-season, told his manager that he was not in the right frame of mind to either start or come off the bench at the Liberty Stadium on Saturday.
Kean was furious with Givet's decision as Rovers slipped to a fifth successive defeat that left them second bottom of the table and three points from safety.
"It was very apparent when I spoke to Gael this morning that he was not anywhere near in the right frame of mind to start today or to be on the bench," Kean said.
"I will speak with him again and if he is in a better frame of mind, then great, but today he was nowhere near in the right frame of mind and that's disappointing.
"I can't get inside somebody's head. I can only tell them how much I need them and how much their teammates need them.
"They need to be like everyone else. If you look at David Dunn, his Achilles was screaming. Bradley Orr has taken an injection to play.
"We need players who even if they are injured and even if their heads are not right for whatever reason, want to play.
"I would rather keep the conversation with Gael private. We need everyone to be pushing because we need two wins and a draw from our remaining games."
As for the game, Kean felt his side were coping well until injuries scuppered their hopes.
"Obviously we have got the combination of three injuries which was difficult for us. It was a bad afternoon all round," he said.
"Grant Hanley has got a really bad ankle injury, Yakubu is touch and go whether he will be back again this season, because he has got Patella tendonitis and Junior Hoilett felt his hamstring.
"We are hopeful Yakubu could be back and Junior Hoilett too, but Grant Hanley has almost no chance."
The travelling Rovers fans once again booed their side off and Kean admitted there could be no excuses for such a poor result.
"We are all upset with the performance. We don't come to a ground to try and lose," he said.
"But I have said all along that if we can go to Anfield and draw and Old Trafford and win, there is no reason why we can't go to White Hart Lane and Chelsea and get something in our remaining games because it is the same group of players.
"I think confidence is a mind-set. People say that you get on a good run and confidence rises, but you can breed confidence by looking at where you have done things well before."
Swansea manager Brendan Rodgers was relieved to end a miserable run of four successive defeats and he said: "I felt I needed to re-frame the players' minds. We had a team meeting and I wanted to take the anxiety out of them.
"I felt we were a little anxious on Wednesday at QPR and I wanted to remind them of how well they have played all season."
Rodgers also praised Gylfi Sigurdsson for his first half wonder goal.
Currently on loan from Hoffenheim, the Icelandic midfielder is a player Rodgers would like to sign in the summer.
"Gylfi's goal was wonderful. As far as anything else is concerned, we will have to review it between now and the end of the season," he said.
"The chairman knows my thoughts and hopefully there can be some discussions between Swansea and Hoffenheim."
