The Li-Ning Singapore Open, from tomorrow till Sunday, is the final preparation for Singapore's Olympic-bound shuttlers.
Gu Juan, Derek Wong, Shinta Mulia Sari and Yao Lei will be battling it out with the likes of Indonesia Open men's doubles winners Lee Yong Dae and Jung Jae Sung, and singles winner Simon Santoso.
The 25th edition of the tournament will be the most important for the Republic's shuttlers. "This is the last chance for us to access our performance and also to gauge our opponents' form," said Gu, who will be facing world No. 17 Porntip Buranaprasertsuk of Thailand in the first round of the women's singles on Wednesday.
"My target for the Olympics is to get a medal, so I'm using this tournament to prove to myself that I am able to perform at the top level."
Singapore Badminton Association's chief executive officer Bobby Lee stressed that the experience of facing foreign competitors will better equip the Singapore shuttlers to meet the challenges that await them in London.
"And with many of the top stars not attending the Singapore Open, it will be a good platform for younger players to perform and to prove themselves."
Wong will face the recently crowned Indonesia Open Premium Superseries winner, Santoso, if he makes it through tomorrow's qualifying round.
"I have played against Simon several times but I have yet to beat him," said Wong.
"So I am going apply what I have been taught throughout my training over the last three months and see how far I can get."
Shinta and Yao, the duo who created history when they won Singapore's first-ever Superseries title in 2010, are hoping to repeat their feat.
They face Malaysians Vivian Hoo and Woon Khe Wei.
Other shuttlers who will be taking part in this tournament include Indonesia's Taufik Hidayat and China's Du Pengyu.
MEN'S SINGLES Tomorrow: Qualifying round Derek Wong v B. Sai Pranneth (IND)
WOMEN'S SINGLES Wednesday: Main draw Gu Juan v Porntip Buranaprasertsuk (THA)
WOMEN'S DOUBLES Wednesday: Main draw Yao Lei / Shinta Mulia Sari v Vivian Kah / Khe Wei Woon (MAS)
