It should have been 5-0.
These were chilling words from Kelantan coach Bojan Hodak.
A tad harsh, for the LionsXII did strike the bar twice in the first half.
But there was no question who were the better team at the Sultan Muhammad IV Stadium last night.
Boosted by the kompang-beating full house, the Red Warriors made their intention clear straight from the first whistle.
Bursting out of the blocks, Kelantan needed just three minutes to win a penalty when Norfarhan Mohd was tripped by Isa Halim inside the box.
Norshahrul Idlan Talaha could not make good his promise of scoring when his spot-kick was saved by Hyrulnizam Juma'at, but he was to have a strong hand in two of the team's three goals.
Sure, the LionsXII did hit back strongly and were unlucky not to score in the first half through either of their dangerous set-piece deliveries.
Just five minutes after the missed penalty, Shahdan Sulaiman's free-kick wreaked havoc in the Kelantan six-yard box.
Shahril Ishak shot but his effort was saved by Khairul Fahmi Che Mat.
Hariss Harun's rebound was blocked by teammate Safuwan Bahrudin on the line, and Khairul Nizam's subsequent header crashed against the bar.
Then, in the 28th minute, Hariss headed Shahdan's corner against the bar and, after Khairul Fahmi again saved from Shahril, Nizam's bicycle kick was saved.
In fact, the hosts were trailing the LionsXII in the shot count six to nine in the first half but, in terms of game play, it was obvious Kelantan had pace, power, creativity and culture, alternating between short passes down the middle and fluid wing play.
Hodak said: "I took a gamble and used short players who could hold the ball, despite knowing LionsXII are strong in set-plays.
"Maybe we were lucky not to be punished, but we played very well tonight."
For 73 minutes, the LionsXII held on, but a moment of true class unlocked their resilient defence.
There appeared to be no danger when Norshahrul cut the ball back from the byeline as the delivery looked to be beyond S Chanturu.
But the right winger expertly improvised to execute a perfect scissor-kick beyond Hyrulnizam and into the bottom corner.
As the LionsXII roamed forward in search of an equaliser, Kelantan scored a beautiful team goal just four minutes later.
Norshahrul dummied over a ball out from midfield for captain Badri Radzi to slip a perfect through ball for Norfarhan to thump home emphatically.
As if that wasn't enough, substitute Rizal Fahmi Rosid slammed in an unstoppable rocket from 25 metres with five minutes left to put the icing on the cake.
Hodak said: "I don't know which goal was the best."
The final shot count? Kelantan 19, LionsXII 11.
If not for Hyrulnizam's excellent saves, it could have been worse for the visitors.
Skipper Shahril conceded: "I feel we could match them, but today was their day and we were beaten by three quality goals."
They had been warned of the defending champions' fondness for a late charge, but the LionsXII simply did not take heed.
Not once, not twice, but three times Kelantan managed to puncture the visitors in the last 20 minutes, increasing the ratio of league goals conceded by LionsXII in the last 20 minutes to nine out of 17 this season.
On the other hand, the Red Warriors have now scored 12 of their 30 league goals in the last 20 minutes.
So why did the LionsXII go to sleep?
LionsXII coach V Sundramoorthy admitted: "It was a lapse of concentration. "We were unlucky not to take the lead, but we have only ourselves to blame by letting in late goals again.
"It is something we must work on, but I'm sure we will bounce back."
Out of title race?
Despite still having a two-point lead at the top of the Malaysian Super League, albeit having played three games more, Sundram did a Roberto Mancini post-match when he conceded Kelantan are in the driver's seat for the league title.
He said: "From the quality we've seen tonight, they are the best team in Malaysia and they are definitely favourites for the title, although we will definitely try to give them a run for their money."
A long fixture list could still derail Hodak's men but, last night, the 17-day break LionsXII had was no match for the momentum the Red Warriors had from playing 16 games in 59 days.
Hodak said: "That is a worry because we have the FA Cup final and AFC Cup to think about.
"But I'm always confident because we have enough quality to rotate."
