LVIV, UKRAINE - The Netherlands' shock 0-1 defeat by Denmark at Euro 2012 has stunned more teams than merely the Dutch themselves.
Germany coach Joachim Loew has attributed the title favourites' less-than-stellar start partly to hearing about their fellow Group B rivals' surprise loss.
The Germans took a long time to hit their stride against a similarly uneasy Portugal, before Mario Gomez buried a 72nd-minute header to give then a 1-0 victory last Saturday.
"It was a good goal for Mario and for the team. We won and that's the important thing," Loew told German television.
"We were a little tense in the first match, after hearing Denmark beat the Netherlands. No team wants to lose the first match. You get a bit of a spark if you win the first match and that's what we wanted.
"We have to improve. We will have to attack with more focus, but I am confident we will succeed in doing that."
The toughest group at Euro 2012 claimed its first victims as the Netherlands' much-touted strike force malfunctioned, spurning chance after chance, despite dominating possession
Just as Chelsea proved with their unlikely Champions League triumphs over Barcelona and Bayern Munich to lift the trophy, Denmark showed that a superior team can be defeated by stout defending, hard work and 90 minutes of concentration.
Denmark coach Morten Olsen said: "The most important thing is that we trusted our own way of playing football. That is so vital, particularly against a quality team like the Dutch."
The Danes were disciplined and patient, as Olsen had asked them to be, but it was the Netherlands' poor finishing that really decided the outcome of the contest.
Dutch coach Bert van Marwijk said: "We did a lot of good work but that's the game - we were the best team, but you have to score to win."
Statistics highlighted the key to the game - the Netherlands had 28 attempts on goal, but 20 of those failed to trouble goalkeeper Stephan Andersen.
The Danes, in contrast, mustered just eight efforts but all were on target, including Michael Krohn-Dehli's clinical strike through keeper Maarten Stekelenburg's legs in the 24th minute.
Robin van Persie, the Barclays Premier League top scorer last season, was the main culprit for the Dutch in terms of finishing.
Even when Van Marwijk introduced striker Klaas-Jan Huntelaar, the top scorer in both Euro qualifying and last season's German Bundesliga, not much improvement ensued.
The increased numbers upfront did nothing to address the lack of composure and, having forced the pace for so long, the Dutch ran out of steam.
Van Marwijk said there was not a lot he could have done, in terms of strategy, to help his team preserve their energy better for a late push.
"It's not an excuse, in a game like that, you lose less energy defending and playing in closed spaces, as the Danes did," he said. "But it's hard to tell your team to defend more when you are losing 1-0 and you are the better team."
There are not many chances left for the Dutch. Germany are their next opponents and that is already a must-win game.
And it remains to be seen whether Denmark can become the Group of Death's serial killers.
