If I may use the Anglo-Chinese School motto, "the best is yet to be". So far they have been our best results, but who are we to say that we are not going to see the bar being raised this year? Although on paper it does look as if we are going to be very, very challenged to repeat (the 2008 performances), let alone to better them. But the fat lady hasn't sung yet.
I don't think Singapore will accept anything less. If our athletes go in there and put their heart and soul into it, then Singapore should welcome them home with a heroes' reception because that's all they can do. That's within their area of ability to deliver.
It's impossible for anyone to guarantee you that they can win. Even Usain Bolt can false-start, so who can be certain?
It is my personal belief in sport - if you give up before you even start, you have got no reason to be in this business.
It's about hope and belief and if we don't have those, everything else just goes down the drain because it relates to a lot of things in life. It's not over till it's over.
Who are we to say that our table tennis players are not going to peak at the right time? Who can say that Tao Li or Joseph Schooling are not going to spring surprises on us? Anything can happen.
I believe in my athletes and I hope they will rise to the occasion.
There is a role for the media to play, which is educating the public about what sport is about.
You are also in a position to assess for yourself if the particular national sports association and athlete are doing things right.
If they have done that, then share it with the rest of Singapore.
In spite of them not winning medals, Singaporeans should be proud of them because they have covered all the bases.
If you think they have lapsed anywhere, I would also urge you to be merciless and say they could have done better in this or that department because you expect them to be professional.
Mindsets are the toughest thing to change. Educating the man in the street about the peculiarities of sport is very difficult.
I would much prefer that the Olympic-bound athletes be your focus ... so that your average Singaporean knows the kind of sacrifice Joseph's parents have made, or what's it like to live through a day in an athlete's life.
If Singaporeans know this athlete more intimately, they are going to be a little more understanding, more appreciative of all the years of sacrifice the athlete has made and hopefully you get a better educated public out there.
Whatever the result in London, the public will be more appreciative of the person, not just the athlete.
No, I jumped at it. It's such an honour and privilege, I did say that Dr Tan (Eng Liang, Singapore's CDM in 2008) left me huge shoes to fill, but we are supposed to thrive facing such challenges, right? (laughs).
I will make sure that my team and I do everything possible to deliver, and back our athletes with the support they need.
If my team have done that, I think we can stand tall and proud.
