Dear Vicente,
Can I call you Vincent?
You remind me of a very nice fatherly restaurant manager I met in Barcelona recently with the same name.
He dressed a lot like you too.
First, let me congratulate you on taking Spain into the semi-finals of Euro 2012.
But I must admit that I am rather confused.
It looks as though you have decided to invent a new form of football, using no strikers in your team.
It seems you believe that if you flood your midfield with short and brilliant ball players named Xavi, Iniesta and Silva, everything else will sort itself out.
Amazingly, so far you have been right.
But let me tell you something.
You are boring the hell out of your opponents and us football fans in the process.
In Singapore, some of us are dragging ourselves out of bed at 2.45 in the morning to watch your boys play.
And they seem to be playing...with each other.
Pass, pass, pass, pass, pass, turn, pass, pass, pass, pass.
And it goes on and on and on.
In tournaments past, at least, there used to be more incisiveness at the end of the passing, maybe because you bothered to use at least one striker.
Now, its just a real drag.
I don't think you can call this tiki-taka anymore.
More like some sticky pasta being served up by a disgruntled waiter (or restaurant manager). It's unappetising, tough to digest and frankly, I would rather have my money back than risk you going back to the kitchen to make this dish again.
Funny thing is, I used to like the way Spain played.
It used to be exciting, attacking football, with one-touch passing that took the breath away.
Now, that only works if you skip the game and just tune into the one-minute highlights the next morning.
Yes, your team look brilliant on YouTube, with the defence-splitting passing and cultured finishing.
Unfortunately, I had to watch the other 89 minutes too.
And Vincent, if you do get the chance, I would suggest watching another team still in the competition.
The coach, like you, would not be out of place in a restaurant with his tight maitre d' shirts. But the football his team play flows like lager at a beerfest.
Yes, Vincent, I am talking about Germany's Joachim Loew, the man you are likely to meet in the final in about a week.
I would argue that his players are less talented than yours, but there is no argument as to who has been better at keeping us Singaporeans awake.
What did you say, Vincent? You don't care about us Singaporeans and only care about winning matches?
Well, let me tell you something, my dear friend.
We may be from a small country, but we are connected in ways you can only imagine.
One phone call and you and your sticky pasta will be dumped out of the tournament. Yes, we Singaporeans can fix things.
But let's not go there, shall we?
Take this as a gentle reminder, eh Vincent?
You know you have the players to win and entertain at the same time.
So stop using this 4-6-0 formation and put one of the Torres' on the pitch.
Tell the rest of your vertically-challenged virtuosos that after 23 passes, someone has got to move into the opposing penalty area and take a shot at goal.
Got it?
Thanks, buddy.
Yours sincerely,
S Murali
