I was there, I saw everything and they started it.
Sulastre Hamzah attended last Friday's match between Singapore and Malaysia at the Jalan Besar Stadium with her eight-year-old daughter.
Two hours before the 7.45pm kick-off, while she and her child were queuing to get into the gallery section of the stadium, a "street fight" broke out in front of them.
The New Paper reported an eye-witness account on Sunday that fans from both teams clashed along Horne Road after one Singapore fan "shouted vulgarities" at the Malaysian fans.
Sulastre, 35, a human resource officer, said she witnessed the same incident - except no vulgarities were hurled.
She said: "While we were queuing, the away fans came around (the road) and they were chanting. But it was just their regular chants, there was no provocation.
"I felt that there was insufficient security ushering the away fans - there were definitely fewer than 10 of them.
"The away fans turned to the right side (towards the King George's Stand) and I heard one of the Singapore fans shout at them.
"He was shouting in Malay, something like 'you're on the wrong side, you should be turning to the other side'.
"This was because the away fans usually go to the opposite stands. I didn't hear him shout any vulgarities at all.
"Suddenly, some of the away fans charged towards the guy, and he retreated towards the queue where I was with my daughter.
"Cisco and FAS securities tried to block them but the away fans managed to get through.
"One of the security guards was attacked by the away fans. It happened so fast. I panicked and tried to protect my daughter."
Sulastre added that her daughter was accidentally pushed against the wall when one of the away fans tried to push one of the Singapore fans.
She said that a handful of women and children were caught in the scuffle.
"Nothing serious happened, but my daughter was (in shock) and I had to calm her down by saying everything was all right," Sulastre said.
The spokesman said: "A Singaporean in his early 20s was arrested for disorderly behaviour outside Jalan Besar Stadium. Police investigations are ongoing."
It is not known, however, if the person arrested was the same Singaporean Sulastre saw gesturing at the Malaysian fans.
One of the security personnel is understood to have suffered a minor head injury as a result of the clash.
Meanwhile, a video has surfaced online from a Singaporean fan who was privy to the incident.
The two-minute video shows 150 or so Malaysian fans from the "Ultra Malaya" marching through the streets and singing.
It also showed a man in a white T-shirt, on the Singapore side, gesturing at the Malaysians. It was not clear what he was saying to the opposing fans.
The video then shows the Malaysian fans breaking through the security cordon and charging towards the man.
TNP quoted a fan from the Ultra Malaya group yesterday as saying that "one Singapore fan started taunting us, shouting vulgarities at us and showing us the middle finger".
Regardless of who incited the fight, Sulastre said that she was disappointed with the security measures in place.
She told TNP that there should be more security officials and the away fans should be better guided to their section of the stadium.
She also asked why the Football Association of Singapore did not allow the home fans into the stadium earlier, despite a crowd amassing outside the gates.
Sulastre, who still plans to support the national team and the LionsXII, said: "I really hope we learn from this incident, so that it doesn't happen again."
