The new athlete-support structure that succeeds the Olympic Pathway Programme (OPP) will come into effect after next month's London Olympics.
The new framework, which comes in the form of a full-fledged Singapore Sports Institute (SSI), is likely to adopt a similar tiering system as the current Singapore Sports Council's (SSC) athlete carding system.
SSC chief executive officer Lim Teck Yin said: "The purpose certainly is to take a multi-Olympic cycle approach - early talent identification, systematic progress tracking, elevating talent to another tier when they are ready.
"The new structure will continue to support those who might not be quite hitting the marks, but may turn around at a certain future point."
Lim was speaking at the sidelines of the launch of a three-month well-wishing campaign for Olympic- and Paralympic-bound Team Singapore athletes at the Jurong Regional Library on Friday.
Under the SSC carding system, athletes receive different levels of medical coverage, sports medicine, sports science support and stipends according to their achievementsand future potential.
The $6.5 million OPP is an add-on for those who have the potential to win an Olympic medal.
The new system will see the SSI working with national sports associations on matters such as appointment of coaches and taking a more "active" approach towards talent identification.
Lim said: "We will go out there to test and identify athletes, as opposed to wait and see who appears on the scene.
"Today our system is quite passive - you go to a swimming meet and see who's swimming, the best will surface from that meet and those are your elite athletes, as opposed to testing athletes early for physiological potential."
Six athletes were drafted into the OPP when it was launched in 2009, but the number has almost doubled.
However, there are those who have qualified or are nominated for the London Games who have not been able to benefit from the sporting war chest.
In March, Singapore Table Tennis Association president Lee Bee Wah pointed out that paddlers Gao Ning, Yang Zi and Zhan Jian had qualified for the Olympics, but were not getting support from the OPP.
A month later, triple jumper Stefan Tseng - who is among four athletes nominated by the Singapore Athletic Association for the Republic's two slots in London - lamented to the press about having to pay to compete in an overseas meet that is crucial in his Olympic preparations.
The new structure's fund will come from the SSI's overall budget, but other details - such as assessment periods and the future of SSC's carding system - are still being ironed out.
The national well-wishing campaign, a collaboration between the SSC, the Institute of Technical Education, McDonald's and the National Library Board, aims to gather 200,000 well-wishes from the public.
Seven murals, each depicting an Olympic or Paralympic athlete, were unveiled at the launch on Friday and will be displayed separately at public libraries islandwide.
