Marco van Basten (Holland), v USSR, 1988
Holland couldn't have asked for a better goal to seal the Euro 1998 crown.
Van Basten's effort was superb for two reasons: It came in the final and he scored against the best goalkeeper in the world at the time, Rinat Dasayev.
As Arnold Muhren's cross floated towards the far post, it set him thinking: "Okay, I can stop it and do things with all these defensive players or I could do it the more easy way, take a risk and shoot."
From an acute angle, he unleashed a volley that sailed into the far post and propelled him into folklore.
Roberto Carlos (Real Madrid), v Tenerife, 1998
Many will argue that no one in the right frame of mind would contemplate taking a shot from the byeline.
From the replays though, it looked as if Carlos meant it for real.
Or you can just remove the scepticism and enjoy it for what it was.
With a lash from the outside of his famous left foot just before the bouncing ball went out of play, the shot travelled at a speed of 112kph into the far corner some 29 metres away.
Thierry Henry (Arsenal), v Man United, 2000
Class? Check.
Big game? Check.
Match-winner? Check.
With his back facing goal at about 20 metres out, there really didn't seem to be any danger that United couldn't handle.
Denis Irwin was tugging his shirt when Henry flicked the ball up, spun and thumped the ball into the top right corner in one fluid motion.
A beaten United goalkeeper Fabien Barthez turned around, hands on hips, as if asking: "What was that all about?"
We are still wondering, too, Barthez.
Zinedine Zidane (Real Madrid), v Bayer Leverkusen, 2002
When the going got tough, the French maestro cranked up the style. It was the 2002 Champions League final against Bayer Leverkusen, and in the dying seconds of the first half when he struck.
As Roberto Carlos' looping cross dropped, Zidane swivelled at the edge of the penalty box and let flew a volley using his weaker left foot.
The goalkeeper didn't stand a chance.
Peter Crouch (Stoke), v Man City, 2012
There was nothing spectacular about the build-up, but the finish was as explosive as it can get.
Receiving a return header from Jermaine Pennant, Crouch flicked the ball, then twisted to volley over Joe Hart from 25 metres. All that, without the ball touching the ground.
Great touch and control by a lanky striker who has often been regarded as a one-trick pony.
