Never write off the Greeks. There was no escape route in sight for them.
But, trailing by a goal and one man down, they somehow salvaged something out of nothing.
Last Friday, Greece gate-crashed the Polish party and made it their own.
A 1-1 draw was what they managed in the end, but with a little more luck, they could have, and should have got more out of their encounter with co-hosts Poland.
Eight years have passed since they defied logic to lift the Euro 2004 crown. Only three players survived from that squad.
But on the evidence of this showing, the never-say-die spirit is still very much alive. They had everything going against them almost right from the start.
Poland, enjoying home advantage, settled down quicker and notched the opening goal.
A huge blow came their way when central defender Avraam Papadopoulos had to limp off the pitch in the 37th minute.
The double whammy was completed seven minutes later when Sokratis Papastathopoulos was sent off for a second-bookable offence.
It should have spelt doom, for it meant that they had to make do without their first-choice central defence for more than an entire half.
Instead, the setbacks sparked them into life and they are probably still kicking themselves for failing to earn a precious win in the first game of Euro 2012.
For some strange reason, the red card galvanised the side.
So much so, that they should have earned all three points.
They had two golden opportunities to seize their opponents by the throat.
The first came in the 68th minute, when substitute Dimitrios Salpingidis earned a penalty for the visitors and, at the same time, forced Poland and Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny into committing a red-card offence.
Unfortunately for Greece, their skipper Giorgos Karagounis couldn't beat the reserve custodian Przemyslaw Tyton from the spot.
Helped by their huge desire as well as a horrible defensive display by Poland, they continued to create goalscoring chances. They managed to get the ball in the net again though.
But Konstantinos Fortounis was marginally offside when he crossed the ball for Salpingidis to hit the target. The home fans heaved a collective sigh of relief.
Poland had started the match the stronger of the two, but Greece finished it with a vengeance. In a game which Poland had them by the scruff of the neck, Greece wriggled free and almost dealt out the punishment instead.
This was a fightback that they can be proud of.
A draw was probably what they were looking for and they did it against the odds.
To ask for a repeat performance of 2004 maybe too much.
Just don't dismiss them too quickly.
The Greeks seem to be in the mood.
