SINGAPORE - A falling ratio of foreign-born athletes here has led to a subsequent decrease in the proportion of funding apportioned to them, and an increase for locally born sportsmen.
According to The Straits Times (ST), the percentage of foreign-born athletes here has fallen from 5.6 per cent in 2008 to three per cent today.
Among the 1,050 athletes registered with the Singapore Sports Council (SSC) for funding and training support, 33 are foreign-born individuals who were able to obtain Singapore citizenship under the Foreign Sports Talent (FST) scheme.
This proportion contrasts sharply with the ratio of 44 overseas-born athletes among a total of 785 registered athletes four years ago.
In an ST article published today, it was reported that foreign-born athletes account for just seven per cent of grants given to national athletes, compared to a much higher 23.8 per cent in 2008.
Speaking to ST, Singapore National Olympic Council vice-president and SSC board member Low Teo Ping said, "The numbers show that national sports associations (NSAs) realise there is no such thing as a shortcut to excelling in sports."
It also likely that more talented local athletes are being recognised for their potentials, he added.
Apart from a stronger sports scene, officials from the NSA also told ST that factors like increasing costs of living and stricter international rules have helped shape the trend in the decreasing number of foreign athletes in Singapore.
Foreign-born athletes have continued to deliver a higher number of medals than locals, reports ST.
Although they formed only seven per cent of Team Singapore personnel, 36 per cent of Singapore's gold medals from the 2011 SEA Games were brought in by foreign-born athletes.
The women's table tennis team, which won for Singapore a long-awaited Olympic gold in 2008, was also made up of China-born team members.
Singapore Badminton Association chief executive Bobby Lee told the newspaper that foreign athletes help raise the standard of local sport, but authorities must also be careful not to upset the balance between local and foreign-born sportsmen.
