LONDON - Former England captain Steven Gerrard, tipped as a possible future skipper, has welcomed the appointment of Roy Hodgson as manager of the national side.
Gerrard, who worked with Hodgson during the 64-year-old's ill-fated spell in charge of Liverpool, said: "I've worked with Roy. He's a good man and a good manager.
"It's important he's given a chance and I'm looking forward to working with him again," Gerrard said in a statement released to the Press Association.
Hodgson dodged a question earlier on Tuesday over whether Gerrard would replace John Terry after he lost the skipper's armband over allegations he racially abused Anton Ferdinand in a league match earlier this season.
Terry faces a court case in July when he will answer the charges, which he denies.
Speaking at a Football Association press conference at Wembley to announce his appointment, the new England manager said: "Will Gerrard be England captain? That's another thing that will have to be carefully thought out.
"It's one of the things that will occupy my time in the days ahead."
Gerrard was joined in welcoming Hodgson by fellow midfielder Jack Wilshere, who has missed much of Arsenal's season through injury.
Wilshere tweeted: "For England....good choice in my opinion! Good luck and I hope I can help him in some way in the future!"
Hodgson spent two and a half years at Craven Cottage from December 2007 working under Mohamed Al Fayed during which time he guided his side to the Europa League final where they were beaten in extra-time by Atletico Madrid.
A statement on www.fulhamfc.com from Al Fayed read: "I send my warmest congratulations to Roy. I hope he does very well.
"Like the rest of the country I, and everyone at Fulham will be right behind Roy, the England team and the FA.
"I was pleased to bring Roy back to English football and was delighted to see how he flourished at Fulham.
"We had some great times and he took us to our highest ever position in the top flight, seventh, and the final of the Europa League in 2010. Roy is a clever man. He speaks many languages, even Finnish!
"I wish him well in the European Championships and I only hope he knows how to say 'We won!' in Ukrainian."
