She was facing three other worthy candidates, but shuttler Fu Mingtian emerged as this year's Sportswoman of the Year at the Singapore Sports Awards ceremony at Swissotel The Stamford last night.
Receiving the award from the guest of honour, President Tony Tan, the 21-year-old South-east Asia Games gold medallist - who overcame a hostile crowd to win a thrilling women's singles final in Jakarta last year - confessed later that she had never thought she would win it over the other three athletes.
"Since being shortlisted for the award, I kept thinking the other sportswomen would win," she said in Mandarin, flashing a wide grin. "Never once did I think I would win. I'm really stunned right now."
Indeed, the three other nominees for the award had notched significant wins in their respective sporting disciplines last year.
Bowler Daphne Tan was runner-up at the World Women's Championships, swimmer Tao Li managed a seven-gold haul at last year's SEA Games, and paddler Feng Tianwei won Pro Tour titles at the Korean and Japan Opens.
Fu said that this award is a consolation for her missing out on qualifying for July's London Olympics.
"If I had a choice, she would definitely have wanted both the award and the Olympic qualification," she said. "But I'm still young, and I'll use this award as motivation to keep striving for upcoming Olympic Games."
There was less drama for the Sportsman of the Year award, as overwhelming favourite Joseph Schooling duly claimed the award over shooter Zhang Jin.
The 16-year-old swimmer also becomes the youngest recipient of the award, easily beating the previous youngest winner, bowler Lim Zhong, who was 18 when he won in 2000.
Schooling won two golds, one silver and a bronze in his SEA Games debut in Palembang last year, and is also the only Singaporean swimmer to meet the A qualifying time for July's London Olympics.
The national swimmers dominated the major awards, with Quah Zheng Wen and Amanda Lim winning the Sportsboy and Sportsgirl of the Year honours respectively.
National bowling coach William Woo earned his second straight Coach of the Year award, while the national wushu women's duilian team won the Team of the Year honours.
The Straits Times correspondent Terrence Voon clinched the inaugural Most Inspiring Sports Story of the Year award with his story "Not just flesh and blood, but the football heart", about S-League goalkeeper Shahril Jantan.
hankeong@sph.com.sg
