LONDON - Steve Clarke, the former Liverpool assistant manager, was on Friday appointed as the new coach of West Brom, the club announced.
Clarke, who quit Anfield on Wednesday, takes over at West Brom from Roy Hodgson, the new England coach.
Clarke, who has also had spells as assistant at Newcastle, West Ham and Chelsea, has signed a two-year contract at the Hawthorns.
This is the 48-year-old former Scotland international's first position as manager.
"I'm absolutely delighted to be given this opportunity," Clarke told West Brom's official website, wba.co.uk.
"Becoming a head coach in my own right has always been an ambition of mine and I feel I have served my apprenticeship.
"I'm delighted West Bromwich Albion have given me the chance to make that progression and I'm determined to make the most of it."
West Brom sporting and technical director Dan Ashworth commented: "We firmly believe we have appointed the right man to keep the club moving forward.
"After Roy was appointed as England manager, we cast the net far and wide to identify the most suitable candidate to fill his shoes.
"From the outset, we decided to pursue candidates who are renowned for their coaching ability and Steve was very much at the forefront of our thoughts because of the clubs he has worked at and the high regard he is held in within the game.
"After holding talks with Steve, he emerged as the outstanding candidate."
Ashworth added: "Steve has worked alongside and learned from some top managers and, most importantly, he knows the Premier League inside-out and what it takes to succeed at this level.
"He is a talented British coach who has served his time in the trenches as a number two in order to get an opportunity to be in sole charge of a team - and we are delighted to give him that chance.
"Steve has a real hunger and drive to succeed as a number one and is excited about the ongoing project we have at the club."
Clarke's departure was widely anticipated from Liverpool after the club sacked Kenny Dalglish - the man who took him to Anfield in January 2011 - as their manager last month.
Under Dalglish and Clarke, Liverpool won the League Cup last season and also reached the FA Cup final, where they lost to Chelsea, for whom Clarke played more than 300 games between 1987 and 1998.
