This is one story every school should pin on its noticeboard.
Especially in the new educational environment, where we're trying to inculcate strong values and resilience in our students.
It is also a story every parent should ask his school-going child to read.
And this is also a tale which truly deserves its nomination into The New Paper's School Sports Star Award, presented by H-TWO-O.
If resilience is what we want to have in our young, then there is no better example than Jonathan Yeo of Raffles Institution (see main story).
Perhaps his one mistake was not paying attention to what was in front of him when he was cycling, but accidents do happen.
What is remarkable is how he has bounced back.
Many a time, we have read stories about athletes who get injured and make recoveries.
But to be declared almost paralysed, told by a doctor that you may never be able to compete again, and then to prove everyone wrong in just four months, is something else altogether.
Jonathan did all that and more when he won the Schools' National title recently.
I have watched enough school games these past two decades to know that many a student gives up too easily.
And my gut feel is seconded by friends, who are coaching in our schools.
One slight knock on the shin, either from a hockey ball or the foot of an opponent in a soccer match, and the player goes down.
He cries out, rolls around and raises his hand.
The umpire stops the match, and the coaches come running in, usually followed by some reserves carrying ice packs and sprays.
The player is then taken to the side, treated almost like a professional, and, if not substituted already, limps back into the field of play, expecting sympathy from teammates and supporters alike.
And he is likely to sit out the next two or three training sessions.
I often cannot help but go back to the times when we were playing the same sports in school.
The same knock would have resulted in a shout from the sidelines, usually a teacher because our teachers were our coaches then, telling us to "rub it down".
And that is exactly what we did.
A 30-second massage, directly on the spot where the hit took place, and we would be back into the game.
Yes, times have changed and I accept that. Coaches and teachers are better trained now, there are enough medical kits and ice packs to go round, and school sports are striving to be as professional as they can get.
But sometimes, tough love means telling the player to "rub it down and get on with the game".
And that is why Jonathan's story is truly inspirational, one that should be pinned on schools' noticeboards.
