She smiled shyly at the cameras before waving to the crowd by the Singapore Sports School pool before her race Saturday.
And 2min 2.76sec later, swimmer Amanda Lim had more reason to smile as she sauntered to victory in the women's 200m free in the fourth day of the South-east Asian Swimming Championships.
She led from start to finish and beat second-placed Malaysian Khoo Cai Lin (2:3.89sec) by almost a body length.
It was her first individual gold in the meet, after victories in the 4x100m and 4x200m free relays in previous days.
Despite her muted reaction, yesterday's swim was significant for the 19-year-old, who clinched the Sportsgirl of the Year accolade at last month's Singapore Sports Awards.
She said: "I'm very happy with my time, it was my first personal-best timing in two years. I'm looking forward to the 50m freestyle tomorrow."
Amanda's time yesterday may be a personal best, but fell short of the Olympic 'B' qualifying mark of 2:02.47.
Only Koh Hui Yu, who finished third, and Lynette Lim have gone below that mark.
But Lim has a chance to better her 'B' timing in the women's 50m free in the last day of the swimming championships.
She clocked 25.77 in a record-breaking swim at last year's South-east Asia Games in Palembang, en route to her four gold medals.
Of today's race, she said: "I feel fresh, good to go, and I will try to post my fastest time and try to be one of Singapore's fastest."
On the other hand, long-distance specialist Teo Zhen Ren rewrote his own 1,500m free national record (15:43.63) with a 15:43.08 swim, finishing second behind Malaysia's Kevin Yeap (15:35.02).
Despite the mark, Zhen Ren was not entirely pleased with his swim.
He said: "I expected to improve much more and I felt good leading up to the race. Even during the race, I thought everything was going to plan.
"Something went wrong with my pacing, and I'd have to look at the videos to find out more. I think I should perhaps have gone out harder and faster at the start."
It was his last chance to improve on his 'B' timing (15:43.74) - which was also the previous national record - before the Olympic qualifying deadline tomorrow.
Despite an avalanche of medals in the first three days, Singapore won only two of the eight events yesterday - through Amanda and the women's 400m medley quartet (4:17.99).
Over at synchronised swimming, Singapore clinched a gold in the Team Free Combination (71.93 points) and a silver in the Solo Free event through Crystal Yap (70.08 points) yesterday.
Yap said: "I felt a bit sad, but I guess this is an opportunity for me to work harder next time."
