KUALA LUMPUR - If Louis Oosthuizen thought that flying to the other side of the world would help him forget about the US Masters, he has another thing coming.
As well as constant questions about Sunday's so-near-yet-so-far play-off loss to Bubba Watson, the world number 19 is surrounded by visual reminders at the Maybank Malaysian Open.
"It's difficult sitting in the clubhouse and they're showing highlights of last week and stuff like that. It's a week you actually just want to forget," said Oosthuizen, who appears desperate to return home.
"I've got three weeks in South Africa after this which will help a lot, just focusing on the year forward," he said.
Oosthuizen has been candid about his bitter disappointment at Augusta, where he shaved the cup with a putt for victory on the first play-off hole before a Watson wonder-shot clinched it on the second.
But ironically, the only place he can forget about the Masters is the golf course - and Oosthuizen was 10 under par through 36 holes for the halfway lead at Kuala Lumpur Golf and Country Club.
"It's always going to be in the back of my mind but once you're on the golf course you don't think about anything. You just think about the game on the day," he said on Saturday.
Oosthuizen's performance has come despite last weekend, the 30-hour journey and Malaysia's trying weather, which has veered from extreme heat to tropical rainstorms and back again, forcing two delays.
He also has the small matter of sharing his hotel room with a 10-week-old newborn and his two-year-old daughter. On their first night, he went to bed at 2:00 am and was awoken three hours later by his daughter watching movies.
"I've got them in the room with me, but it's fine," he said. "My wife is doing a great job - whenever they sleep, she sleeps, and if it's time for me to sleep they'll sit in the other room and just give me a bit of time to sleep.
"It's really tough for them but next week we're going back to South Africa so I think it should be good then. It's halfway between the States and this time-zone so it should be good."
The 2010 British Open champion has been travelling with his family since his daughter was just a few months old. But he said flying from Georgia to Malaysia and then to South Africa in just over a week was especially difficult.
"I think you get used to all the travelling and stuff, but it's a tough week," he said.
"We knew beforehand that it's going to be tough I think your whole mindset around it is already focused on just knowing it's going to be really tough. But it's been okay.
"I can do with minimum sleep so I'm fine with that. You just get tired when it gets to about six or seven o'clock at night. Last night I was out cold at 7:30 pm. But I'm up early in the mornings.
"It's just one of those things, it's a tough week but you prepare yourself mentally for it."
