Every player craves success, and Eden Hazard is no different.
As Chelsea and the two Manchester clubs battle for his signature, I think his greatest consideration should be a club who are best placed to win trophies.
With that, Manchester City would be the best choice for the 21-year-old attacking midfielder.
Make no mistake, United and Chelsea are undoubtedly big clubs, but they do not have City's infrastructure in challenging for honours.
Even though Chelsea managed to win the Champions League this season, I don't see them retaining their crown next season.
United did not even make it past the group stages of the Champions League.
As such, I don't see either team being the dominant force of England in the next few years - with the league title now won by City.
Should Hazard crave immediate success, his best shot would be at the Eastlands.
He's at the right age, with immense quality on the pitch to boot, and does not need to be eased into his new team.
That said, he would be a perfect fit in the Citizen's tactical set-up.
City have been looking for a player who can play behind their main striker, with Yaya Toure, David Silva, Samir Nasri and even Sergio Aguero all tested in that position.
But Hazard offers the driving force from midfield which those players are not able to provide.
It's also true that he might not be a first-choice starter, especially faced with fierce competition among the wealth of talent in City's ranks.
But regular competition against these players, who are arguably the best in the world, would do wonders for his development as a player.
United and Chelsea are also in the process of rebuilding their squads, and joining them could be a backward move for Hazard.
Indeed, with his talent and potential, he could turn out to be a kingpin in either club's midfield, but there would be too much pressure on him to drag the team forward.
On the other hand at City, the likes of Aguero, Silva, Toure and Nasri would conversely take the weight off his shoulders. There would be no pressure on him to single-handedly bring the team to glory.
I'm not saying a move to Old Trafford or Stamford Bridge would be a mistake for the Belgium international, but he should consider a club who are able to match his ambition.
Hazard certainly has got the quality to become one of the best players in the world, and now it's time to decide which club would be the best choice to further his fledging career.
