For a 17-year-old, Karthic Harish Ragupathy's heroes are unusual. He has no time to admire Lionel Messi's mastery of the football. No patience for Justin Bieber's music.
Karthic's heroes are two unglamorous, gaunt men - Ethiopian middle- and long-distance runners Kenenisa Bekele and Haile Gebrselassie.
Karthic, like his idols, is a middle- and long-distance runner. He recently won the 3,000m steeplechase and 5,000m race at Singapore's 53rd National Inter-School Track &amp; Field Championships.
And in March he became only the third runner in the schools' national cross-country championship's 53-year history to have won individual A (17-18 years), B (15-16 years) and C (13-14 years) division titles.
The young Singaporean, "when old enough", wants to run the marathon.
Karthic knows his sport is perhaps the sternest test of endurance and mental strength. But it is not a spectator sport and pales in popularity when compared to the sprints. For how can a puffing, panting Bekele match Usain Bolt's showmanship?
But Karthic finds beauty in Bekele's strain and draws inspiration from Gebrselassie's efforts.
He says: "I watch their runs on YouTube. I even watch their training videos. What they do is amazing. Both of them are from a poor country. They fought through so many difficulties. Gebrselassie ran 20km since he was five, just to go to school and back. I am lucky to be here in Singapore with so many opportunities. I tell myself, if they can do it, so can I. I draw strength from them."
The Singaporean is a student of Hwa Chong Institution and has been running since he was 13.
At first sight, it's hard to believe that he is an athlete. He is scrawny, wears glasses, even while running, and looks more like he belongs in a chemistry laboratory than on a running track.
His mature talk will baffle you more. He talks of discipline with ease and of pain with gumption. He finds convincing himself to get out of bed every single day the hardest thing to do. For distance running is no cake-walk. It requires massive effort and focus.
Karthic says: "I took up running for fun. I played basketball before. I didn't know I had talent for running, till my coach saw the potential in me."
He was spotted by Singapore Athletics Association's middle- and long-distance coach Elangovan G. when he was a student of St Joseph's Institution (SJI) and has been training under him for four years.
He trains every day. Runs long distances thrice a week. And shorter distances with breaks on other days. But Sundays are meant for "relax runs to cool off the muscles".
"I can't afford to skip training even for a day. It affects my performance. But juggling junior college with running is also difficult. I can't afford indiscipline," he says.
He says he feels the strain of competitive sport. Of choosing to run and trying to meet the challenges of a tough curriculum.
"It's difficult. To actually force yourself out of bed every morning, put on your shoes and go out for a run. Sometimes I get that feeling - can I stop? But I just push myself. I talk myself into it. The pain is temporary but the glory makes it all worth it. The happiness after winning is indescribable," he says.
His days are spent training on the field and studying at school. By the time he gets home, eats and bathes, he gets only 10-15 minutes to relax before he hits the books to finish his homework.
"I live by the clock. I can't get distracted by TV and the Internet. Without discipline, it doesn't work. And I have to watch what I eat. I allow myself only one McDonald's meal a month," he says with a smile.
It was his mother, IT professional Poornima Ramakrishnan, who encouraged him to take up running.
He says: "My mother was a runner when she was younger. She understands that training is tough. She supports me a lot, comes down for my races.
"Some parents discourage their kids from taking up sports - they want A grades and a good job. But my mum says sports is an integral part of the holistic development."
Karthic's coach, Mr Elangovan, says he was a precocious talent. He tells tabla!: "He was discovered through an SJI skills test exercise that the school uses to determine its students' athletic aptitude. I have been working with him since. In Sec 2, he started competing with Sec 4 boys. He is talented, special and eager to compete. We had to hold him back, restrain him. Because long-distance running isn't just about stamina and without proper build-up and preparation, a talent may never achieve its full potential."
Mr Elangovan has high hopes for his ward. "He is a quick learner and a great talent. He absorbs everything. The South-East Asian (SEA) Games is a target I believe he will achieve. He has also qualified for the Asian Junior Athletics Championships, in Sri Lanka in June."
The coach says that the coming years will be the real test for Karthic. "I have seen many drop out after school. Academic pressures. There's National Service, which Karthic also has to enlist for at the end of next year. I don't know what the future holds for him. But he is a great talent."
Karthic is realistic about his targets. "I know my potential. If I can compete for Singapore in the SEA games, I'll achieve my goal," he says.
Asian Games? Olympics? "Don't think that's possible," he says.
But then again, he might just draw inspiration from Bekele, from Gebrselassie.
ankitav@sph.com.sg
