He last played a professional football match in January 2010, when he kept a clean sheet in a 3-0 home win over Indonesia's Sriwijaya to help SAFFC qualify for the Asian Champions League.
Former Singapore No. 1 Rezal Hassan hopes for a similar result if he goes back between the posts for Saturday's S-League clash against leaders Brunei DPMM.
The 37-year-old is the SAFFC goalkeeping coach, but the club have been forced to call him out of retirement after regular custodian Shahril Jantan picked up a calf injury. Shahril is rated 50-50 for the match.
Rezal will be on standby for the match in Bandar Seri Begawan as SAFFC's other goalkeeper, Hassan Sunny, is out for the season with a knee injury.
Said Rezal: "Of course I'm nervous. It's like playing my first professional game again."
If called upon, the Warriors will hope the stocky, 1.85m-tall custodian can turn back the clock and replicate the form that led to his call-up for the 1994 Malaysia Cup squad as a 19-year-old.
Said the former national goalkeeper: "It is unfortunate that both our goalkeepers, two of the best in the country, are injured. But the lucky thing is they registered me, so we are not in a fix.
"I had a run out with the Prime League team and we beat the NFA Under-18s 3-0 last Monday. I just did my job, marshalled the defence and it's great to get a clean sheet.
"There will be nerves, but that will only help to keep me on my toes.
"If I'm asked to play, I feel confident I can contribute and it will be great if we can beat DPMM to get over our disappointing loss to Albirex."
The likes of Shahrazen Said (eight goals) and Basiru Osman (five) will prove a sterner test than a bunch of promising teenagers half Rezal's age, and SAFFC coach Richard Bok is aware he has to sort out his defence after a 4-3 loss to Albirex last Sunday.
While his team are the fourth-best attacking side with 24 goals scored, they also have the fourth-worst defensive record after shipping in 23 goals in 13 games.
Said Bok: "Most years my teams have been very attack-minded. But we still have a strong defence.
"This season, some of the goals were preventable and we will have to look at the matches again and rectify what went wrong.
"Against Albirex, we had the upper hand and were a bit unfortunate to lose.
"We didn't defend poorly against a very mobile team, just lapses of concentration and marking during set-pieces, which we will work to eliminate ahead of DPMM.
"As for Rezal, he has been training, he has a lot of experience and I'm sure we can depend on him if he is called upon."
