SINGAPORE - After Harold Ong finished the race, the first thing he did was to hug and thank his teacher-in-charge.
It did not matter whether the team had won the title or not, what mattered was that he completed the race, and finally felt good about himself.
And the one person he wanted to thank most was his school's cross country teacher-coach Sheikha Fadzleen, the only one who believed in him and gave him the opportunity.
Said the 16-year-old student from Victoria School (VS): "I wanted to give up running to focus on my studies as I wasn't doing well in school.
"But Madam Sheikha was very understanding. She gave me the necessary encouragement and support I needed.
"During the race, I told myself that I wanted to make her proud. I couldn't have done well without her."
Sheikha sets the example of a truly inspirational teacher, who shoulders additional responsibilities as both a PE teacher and coach.
Over the years, she has groomed numerous sporting stars from scratch.
But Harold was one of those who truly inspired her. From a student who was viewed as a "slacker" by his peers, Sheikha transformed him into a top runner in VS.
She said: "I invited Harold to join the cross country team towards the end of last year as he didn't have a CCA (Co-Curricular Activity).
"I realised his potential after I saw his NAPFA (National Physical Fitness Assessment) results.
"Initially, I had to call him every day to attend our morning trainings as he couldn't wake up on time.
"His attitude gradually improved, and his efforts paid off when he finished 14th at the nationals (National Inter-School Cross Country Championships).
"After the race, he hugged and thanked me for everything. It's a feeling money cannot buy. To me, this is a defining moment as a teacher."
Last week, despite being more than seven months' pregnant, Sheikha led her charges to yet another National Inter-School B Division Cross Country title.
Since she took over the sport in 2007, VS has won six titles.
Her journey with the team has been especially rough this year, as she was expecting her first child.
However, the selfless teacher drew strength from her students, who continue to inspire her year after year.
"The people who keep me going are my students," said the 31-year-old.
"This year has been particularly difficult as I'm pregnant. I feel really restricted and I get tired easily.
"But I'm proud of my students, their successes inspire me.
"Winning many titles is not my target. Allowing my students to achieve their goals is more important. "I see myself as a teacher, not a coach. I always tell them to win with humility.
"It's my job to develop not only good sportsmen, but also to develop youths with right values."
Sheikha, an NUS graduate, first joined VS in 2002 as a contract teacher, before attending NIE the following year.
In her first stint at the school, she became the third teacher-in-charge of the cross country team, when her colleague Ho Kiat Chong roped her in.
Said Sheikha: "Mr Ho, the main teacher-in-charge and coach of the team, saw my interest in running. He asked if I wanted to get involved and I agreed.
"However, I had to leave for NIE soon after. Even while I was attending NIE, I still came down on weekends to help out during trainings.
"I wanted to return to VS after NIE. And thanks to Mr Ho, who probably put in a good word for me, I returned in 2005."
Not long after Sheikha's return to VS, Ho entered his retirement year and was looking to pass on the baton.
He had two candidates in mind - Tan Chong Kiat, then second-in-charge, and Sheikha. As Tan was already training the track and field squad, Sheikha took over the reins from Ho.
Initially, the team's results did not go Sheikha's way.
She recalled: "In my first year as coach, I saw myself as a failure as we didn't win the title. We've always finished in the top four and won at least a title each year. It was a great setback for me as VS did the double - winning both the B and C Divisions - the previous year.
"However, Mr Ho continued to encourage and mentor me. Hence, I decided to stay on. Fortunately, we did better the following year."
Since then, few have questioned her abilities as she continued to produce the goods.
Apart from bringing in titles, she has also touched many lives within her team.
Marcus Ng, a runner-up at the National Inter-School Cross Country Championships, was grateful for Sheikha's commitment to the team. Both Marcus and Sheikha live in VS' boarding school.
"Madam Sheikha's my teacher mentor in the hostel, she's like a mother to me. She's also very dedicated to the team and takes time off her busy schedule to train us," said the Sec 4 student.
As Sheikha awaits motherhood - her child is due late next month - she realises that juggling the additional responsibility will be challenging.
Said Sheikha: "I want to continue what I'm doing. But I've promised my husband that I'll dedicate my time to our child.
"I'll only reconsider my responsibilities if I cannot cope."
