They may have lost their last league game against defending champions and title contenders Kelantan.
But the LionsXII are confident that the Malaysian Super League title is still theirs to lose.
Asked by The New Paper yesterday if Kelantan have seized the initiative with their 3-0 win last Friday over his team, V Sundramoorthy said: "The title will be decided by LionsXII, we always look at ourselves first and if we keep winning, we will put pressure on the other teams."
With the latest result between the two sides, Kelantan are now on 34 points - just two adrift of the table-topping Singapore team- with three games in hand.
Captain Shahril Ishak added: "Kelantan still have not played the likes of Terengganu, Selangor and Negeri Sembilan, and they might drop points against these teams.
"We are defintely disappointed with the result against Kelantan and analysed our mistakes from the videos.
"We didn't defend well as a team and they exploited the gaps left by us when we opened up to chase the game."
Sundram added: "We lost our concentration and conceded three goals in the last 20 minutes.
"The boys are eager to bounce back from that game and must fight to keep their places in the team because a lot of young players are waiting in the wings to play."
The LionsXII are aiming to bounce back from their biggest defeat this season tonight, when they play Felda United at the Hang Jebat Stadium in Malacca.
While Sundram's men ran out 3-1 victors when they met at the Jalan Besar Stadium earlier this season, the coach cautioned that the Settlers will be a different team tonight.
The 11th-placed team strengthened their squad with two French players - striker Mickael Antoine-Curier and defender Eddy Viator - in the mid-season transfer window recently.
Sundram said: "If I am not wrong, the striker once played for Paris Saint German and is taller than Bai (Baihakki Khaizan).
"He adds strength to their front-line and holds up play up front well."
For the record, Baihakki is 1.90m-tall, while Antoine-Curier is 1cm taller.
in the Lions' den, vice-captain Hariss Harun will not make the the trip up north, after suffering a knock on his right shoulder.
The midfielder went for a scan yesterday and will know the results today.
Centre-back Safuwan Baharudin limped out of the pitch halfway through the team's 90-minute training session at the Jalan Besar Stadium yesterday, after tweaking his groin and is doubtful for tonight's game.
Other than the duo, the LionsXII are fit and ready for the remaining eight games in the business end of the season.
Shahril said: "It's a good sign for us that most of us are healthy and injury-free. I remember that about half our team was down at one point earlier this season.
"We are not worrying about our opponents; we only focus on ourselves and how to win games.
"Let the rest worry about us."
