KRAKOW - England manager Roy Hodgson believes Joe Hart could hold the key to his team's Euro 2012 chances as the Manchester City goalkeeper looks to extend his proud unbeaten international record.
Hart has never been on the losing side for England in a competitive game, an eight-match run that began after he emerged as the Three Lions' No.1 goalkeeper in the aftermath of the 2010 World Cup.
Two years ago, Hart was a frustrated tourist in South Africa, failing to earn a minute of game time during England's ill-fated campaign despite many insiders revealing he had been the form goalkeeper in training.
Since then, however, the 25-year-old has established himself as one of the best goalkeepers in world football, a formidable guardian poised to carry on the traditions of Gordon Banks and Peter Shilton.
Hodgson believes Hart's emergence augurs well for his injury-hit team as they prepare to open their Group D campaign against France in Donetsk on June 11.
"If you look at the top England teams of the past and the teams that have done extremely well in the past, we have often had a goalkeeper that people have suggested is one of the best goalkeepers in Europe or in the case of Gordon Banks, one of the best in the world," said Hodgson.
A devoted student of the game, Hodgson said he followed the Brian Clough school of thought when it came to assessing goalkeepers.
"I agree 100% with Brian Clough's situation," Hodgson said, referring to the legendary late Nottingham Forest manager.
"He always placed great faith in goalkeepers. He felt that got you a lot of points every year. He produces the save that a normal goalkeeper wouldn't.
"That lifts your team higher up the league. It also gives confidence, which is another factor."
Hodgson believes the success or failure of England's campaign could hinge on Hart's performances between the sticks.
"I agree he will be vital," Hodgson said. "His form for Manchester City has been superb. When he has played for England he has done very well. If we are to do well there is no doubt we will need Joe Hart in top form."
The supremely confident Hart, meanwhile, is thriving on the additional responsibility of being England's first-choice goalkeeper in contrast to the unused bystander of the 2010 World Cup.
"South Africa was amazing. I absolutely loved it. I just wish we had done better as a team. We had a really good squad out there and it was unfortunate we couldn't do as well as we wanted to," Hart said.
"For me, it's a totally different mindset this time to two years ago. There's an awful lot more expected of me this time with playing all the qualifying games and things like that.
"But I like that responsibility and hopefully I'll bring something positive to the team."
Hart believes back-to-back clean-sheets in 1-0 friendly wins over Norway and Belgium this month were the perfect preparation for the more searching examination likely to be provided by France.
"The game against France will be one of the biggest games of the championships," he said. "France will play some pretty football around the box so we have to be ready for that.
"Thankfully I've been lucky enough with England to have been involved in some pretty big games the last couple of years and this will be the next one.
"The fact we are looking solid helps. It's something I've had with my club side and it's helped us do well, winning the Premier League and FA Cup.
"That's been mirrored with England. We communicate well and have a solid set-up. The defence has been great."
