SINGAPORE - Ninety-nine per cent.
That's how high Singapore's footballing son, Fandi Ahmad, rates the LionsXII's chances of lifting the Malaysian Super League trophy this year.
Fandi, 49, now technical adviser and team manager of Malaysian Premier League side Johor FA, said he was not at all surprised that V Sundramoorthy's team are leading the league.
"I said before the season that the team needed five or six games to get their rhythm going," said Fandi, before the LionsXII beat Johor 4-3 in a friendly match at the Larkin Stadium on Saturday night.
He added: "This team are doing well because of two things - they're very disciplined and they're playing to their strengths.
"By discipline, I don't mean not getting yellow and red cards, but by being tactically sound and working hard.
"Their main strength is playing as a tight unit and capitalising on their opponents' weaknesses.
"They have really improved a lot the last eight or nine games... I'm very sure they will take the league title."
Fandi cited Kelantan's heavy schedule as a huge advantage for the LionsXII.
Kelantan, second in the league and five points behind the LionsXII but with three games in hand, will play five games inside 16 days in June.
The LionsXII have that period clear of any fixtures.
He said: "They have too many games coming up; in the FA Cup, the AFC Cup and the league. So, which is their priority?
"I think the AFC Cup is the big one for them. But they will struggle having to play so many games.
"They're lucky their striker Norshahrul (Idlan Talaha) is back from injury now, but if their key players get injured in June, they will have big problems."
Fandi believes that even if the LionsXII lose the crucial clash with Kelantan in Kota Baru this Friday, they still have a 50-50 chance at the league title after that.
He said: "Kelantan have some tough teams to play, like Selangor who are on form now.
"The LionsXII have already played Selangor twice. And Sundram has all his key players back from injury heading into the final stretch."
Fandi also agreed with LionsXII assistant coach Kadir Yahaya's assessment that six more victories will be enough to capture the crown.
"The next five or six games will decide everything," he said.
"The LionsXII definitely have the advantange."
When asked to name a few players who have impressed the most, Fandi cited the central midfield trio of Shahdan Sulaiman, Hariss Harun and Isa Halim.
But he also made special mention of defender Shakir Hamzah, whom he feels has really thrived under the guidance of Sundram and Kadir.
Said Fandi: "So many of these LionsXII players are ready for the national team now. They definitely need to be looked at.
"This M-League experience has really helped them. Playing in the S-League is fine, but it's the same teams every other week.
"Here, it's something different. Also, the young players have really matured from playing in the Super League atmosphere."
