The compliments pile up as a major tournament nears. This is nothing new.
Once more, Cristiano Ronaldo braces himself for a one-man demolition job.
The world is watching.
Former Manchester United Peter Schmeichel tipped him to become the best player of Euro 2012. His Portugal teammate Ricardo Quaresma announced: "For what he has done this season, I think he deserves the Ballon d'Or."
Joachim Loew, coach of Portugal's Group B opponents Germany betrayed his fears by saying: "I would need three or four players to stop him."
If only performance is delivered on promise.
At United and Real Madrid, he blossomed beyond conventional belief, turning into perhaps the finest specimen of an all-round footballer.
The speed merchant can dribble, shoot with either foot, head the ball, make the killer pass and finish with unerring accuracy.
For Portugal, it's quite another story.
Disappointment after disappointment best describes his international career. It's as if the hopes of an entire nation bearing down on his shoulders make his knees wobbly.
He burst onto the scene at Euro 2004 as an exciting teenager. At the World Cup two years later, he didn't quite fulfil his immense potential, although the Portuguese would make it to the last four.
He was a disappointment at Euro 2008, and failed to fare any better in the World Cup that followed. No one lacks faith in his footballing repertoire.
Questions, though, have been raised about his ability to deal with the pressure when representing his country.
The Portuguese greats before him, the likes of Eusebio and Luis Figo, turned it on for club and country with minimal fuss.
The challenge is for Ronaldo to do the same.
Now 27, he will be making his fifth attempt at replicating his club success on the international arena. In his prime, he can have no more excuses.
He's heading to Ukraine in deadly form. In the season just past, Ronaldo scored 60 goals in all competitions as Real Madrid beat Barcelona to the Spanish La Liga title.
During his country's qualifiers for Euro 2012, he also scored seven goals in eight appearances.
The inherent danger of an over-reliance on a single player is that if Plan A doesn't work out, there is seldom a dependable Plan B to turn to.
If history is anything to go by, then Portugal coach Paulo Bento will be naive to simply hope for the best.
Said Bento: "In the qualifiers, he (Ronaldo) helped us a lot but we still think the same - we will not rely on any player to resolve all problems.
"We try to do things as a team and there will be some players who will help us solve certain problems, as in the case of Cristiano, thanks to his talent and dynamism."
Nine years after making his international debut, the world is still waiting to see him shine in a Portugal top when it matters.
It wasn't supposed to take this long.
