GROUP A RUSSIA 4 (Alan Dzagoev 15, 78, Roman Shirokov 24, Roman Pavlyuchenko 82) CZECH REPUBLIC 1 (Vaclav Pilar 52)
Watching Russia crush the Czech Republic 4-1 Saturday morning (Singapore time) was like living in a timewarp where it was Euro 2008 all over again.
How else do you explain the Andrei Arshavin who turned up at The Municipal Stadium in Wroclaw and lorded over the Czechs like he was one of Europe's premier playmakers once again?
Who was that man with the wispy hair, the No. 10 on his back and the captain's armband on his left arm?
His features might seem familiar but Arsenal fans surely won't recognise his performance.
Full of deft dribbles and flamboyant flicks, he passed the test with panache as he glided around the pitch with intuitive intelligence that made him seem two steps ahead of everyone else. And he even tracked back to help out his defenders.
He looked the archetypal Arsenal player, and since it's Groundhog Day circa 2008, maybe Arsene Wenger might just want to recall him from his Russian exile in St Petersburg with Zenit where he has been on loan for the latter half of last season.
How could the abject Arsenal reject who left London for his native Russia to a chorus of boos ringing in his ears be such a transformed figure in a Russian shirt? Especially when he is 31 and supposed to be well past his Euro 2008 prime? Others might have got the goals - the new darling of Russian football, Alan Dzagoev, bagged a double while a goal and an assist were just reward for Roman Pavlyuchenko - but it was Arshavin who shone.
Pavlyuchenko, the former Tottenham striker, is another London reject who is playing like he was four years ago.
But, in Dick Advocaat's Russian team, it is clear that Arshavin is the Czar.
Everything good involved him and everything he did was good.
With the Czechs starting the game stronger, it was Arshavin's cheeky backheel that bamboozled their defence and freed up Yuri Zhirkov to deliver a cut-back which Aleksandr Kerzhakov should have scored from in the 14th minute.
Ten minutes later, he created Russia's second for Roman Shirokov with a accurately- angled pass.
Carrying on his seemingly single-handed mission to get the woeful Kerzhakov on the scoresheet, the Czar commanded the ball to evade the Czechs and remain at the tip of his toes before sending another well-weighted pass which saw his Zenit teammate faced with a one-on-one with Petr Cech.
That 65th-minute chance was spurned by Kerzhakov yet again, but no blame could be laid on Arshavin.
Even the most captivating Czar can't have all his comrades under his control.
No matter, because his coach is convinced of his class.
Before the game Advocaat said of his captain: "(He) is a crucial player for us, but he still has to improve his game.
"Arshavin is a player of moments - he can score out of nothing, and you don't have too many of that kind of player in the world."
Not only is he a player of moments, but Arshavin also seems to be capable of recreating moments from his prime four years ago.
And long may the football world remain in the Czar's time warp - where it's always Euro 2008.
