As an entertaining tournament where football has won and England have lost reaches its climax, Neil Humphreys looks ahead to the Euro 2012 semi-finals and provides an all-you-need-to-know guide to the final four.
SPAIN have not ruled out a 1-10-0 formation against Portugal. Iker Casillas may play as sweeper. It's not an untested strategy. Eccentric coach Foroutan Bahman dabbled with his 'keeper-as-sweeper formation when he was in charge of Clementi Khalsa back in 1999. It didn't work. Clementi shipped more goals than the Republic of Ireland, but the S-League had never seen comedy like it. Vincente del Bosque may try the system to pacify Casillas, who's been complaining he doesn't have enough to do in matches. Against Portugal, he intends to use the goal-line to work on his Michael Jackson moonwalk.
SPAIN has struggled to understand all the flak for fielding a false No.9 when Portugal have adopted a similar tactic since 2004 with Postiga. He has been a false striker. But he is unlikely to play any further part in the tournament. Most fans will struggle to notice. His teammates will struggle to notice.
WHENEVER Germany attack Italy - which will be often - coach Joachim Loew will flick his hair and undo a shirt button. By the second half, he'll be stripped to the waist and ready to audition for a boy band. Apparently, Roy Hodgson vowed to do the same every time England attacked against Italy. Fortunately, England never attacked.
SPAIN will successfully execute three passes. The commentator will call it tiki-taka. Spain will make it 33 passes and Asian audiences will take a power nap. Spain will complete 333 passes and Asian audiences will wake up in time to see a Spaniard prod the ball into the net. A pundit will lament England's inability to produce players capable of retaining possession and passing with metronomic precision. Somewhere in England, Paul Scholes and Michael Carrick will kick their TVs. They'll hit their target, of course, which is unusual for an Englishman.
THERE is a nagging fear that Pirlo and Mesut Oezil may cancel each other out. For those who remember Baywatch (and if you don't, what's wrong with you?), it never quite worked when Pamela Anderson and Yasmine Bleeth shared the same camera space. Instead of twin peaks, we got lost in a mazy haze of silicone valleys. The eye didn't know where to look (and as a rule, the eye always knew where to look on Baywatch). No one wants Pirlo and Oezil to be Pammy and Yasmine. We just want one slow-mo jiggle at a time. That's all we need - or can cope with - at 4am. (And you probably won't be able to watch the semi-final now without thinking of Pammy and Yasmine, which should at least keep you awake. Although I probably wouldn't watch Baywatch for a while.)
THE Italians will target Holger Badstuber, the weaker of the two German centre-backs, and pray that he gets a knock and Coco the Clown makes an appearance. Coco, formerly known as Per Mertesacker, couldn't be more out of place if he came out in giant, flat red shoes and juggling skittles.
CRISTIANO Ronaldo will curse the sky, scream at his teammates, punch the floor in frustration, berate the officials and eyeball his opponents. Then he'll lead Portugal out to face Spain.
SHOULD Italy be awarded a penalty, Andrea Pirlo has promised to feint to his left to send the 'keeper the wrong way, drop to his knees and head the ball from the penalty spot. The bobbling ball will trickle at an agonisingly slow pace across the turf before stopping dead one full inch past the goal-line. It will be the most impudent, audacious, artistic penalty of all time. The referee's assistant, standing just a metre away, will say the ball didn't cross the line.
LET'S face it, if Spain were a pinball machine, we'd have given them a tilt by now. Del Bosque has been asked on more than one occasion if he intends to supply an end product against Portugal; to pick a striker, a totem pole, a figurehead, an Andy Carroll-type leader of the line. Apparently, he has only just stopped giggling.
ENGLAND fans may miss the Three Lions. They will miss Stevie G wearing the skipper's armband. They might even miss Wayne Rooney wearing a tea coaster on his head. Then the semi-finals will kick off and we'll remember that the four remaining teams do the strangest thing... they all play football. And England will be immediately forgotten. But Rooney's tea coaster will live on forever.
