No chief executive. No commercial director. No head of sports science. No director of football. No head of communications.
Now Liverpool Football Club have no manager, after Kenny Dalglish's contract was terminated by American owners Fenway Sports Group (FSG).
And so 21 years after Dalglish first left the club in 1991, the club are back at square one in what must be the longest rebuilding process ever.
Liverpool will be searching for their fourth manager in as many seasons. So much for stability.
FSG's month of massacres, which started on April 12 with director of football Damien Comolli being shown the door, leaves stadium announcer George Sephton as the most senior figure at Anfield with any understanding of the club or the game.
Yes, the 2011/12 season has been a failure by Liverpool's standards, even taking into account a Carling Cup win and an FA Cup Final appearance.
Say what you like about statistics, but they were definitely damning for Dalglish.
Liverpool won only six league games at Anfield last season. Only four clubs - Wigan, Aston Villa, Bolton and Wolves - managed less.
The side suffered 14 league defeats, a record which would have got most managers of top-half sides the sack.
Liverpool also failed to put together a credible challenge for a Champions League place, finishing 17 points behind fourth-placed Spurs.
The final league points tally of 52 was their lowest in the Premier League era and the fewest garnered by the club since the 1953/54 season.
Still, most fans will view FSG's sacking of Dalglish as ruthless and harsh. While he was never the long-term solution, most Liverpool supporters would not have begrudged him another season to correct his mistakes.
But that is what happens when you employ a club legend. It will always end badly.
FSG has shown that there are no sacred cows with their clearouts.
But if Dalglish leaving was a statement of intent, Liverpool will need a louder one in terms of his replacement.
It is embarrassing for a club of Liverpool's stature to be linked with inexperienced managers like Roberto Martinez, Brendan Rodgers and Paul Lambert.
On the other hand, with no Champions League football on offer for the foreseeable future, it can also forget about luring thoroughbreds like Jose Mourinho and Pep Guardiola.
So who can FSG trust to deliver the success they and LFC fans crave?
Guus Hiddink? He has a proven track record but at age 65, is even older than Dalglish.
Rafa Benitez? A legend on Merseyside, the Spaniard is apparently not on the owners' radar.
Klopp next?
I personally would love to see Juergen Klopp at the helm. He is only 44 and has recently led Borussia Dortmund to a second straight league title and a domestic double in Germany - all this on a modest budget.
But insider talk is that Andre Villas-Boas had been FSG's choice prior to Dalglish's appointment, and they are reportedly back in for him.
On paper, he's the right fit for FSG - young, with lots to prove and not afraid to wield the axe in terms of squad rebuilding.
But given how he alienated some of the Chelsea players, and was undermined by Roman Abramovich and the English press, how would he survive a similar, if not worse, grilling as Liverpool manager?
Judging from the online reaction from fans worldwide, the fanbase is once again divided - this time over Dalglish's sacking, his possible replacement and renewed doubts about FSG's leadership.
But an inspired choice of manager can prove, to borrow a line from The Avengers movie, that FSG have a plan of attack, instead of just a plan: Attack.
