ONE CREATED history by winning Singapore's first badminton women's singles title at the South-east Asia Games last November.
The other is currently ranked 16th in the world and is one of the Republic's highest-ranked women's singles players ever.
In the end, the Singapore Badminton Association (SBA) went with the latter - Gu Juan - instead of SEA Games champion Fu Mingtian in their nomination for the London Olympics in July.
The SBA made the announcement yesterday at the launch of this year's Li-Ning Singapore Open at the Singapore Badminton Hall.
Gu Juan came up tops based on SBA selection criteria - current world ranking, competition achievements during the qualification period, head-to-head results against the world's top 25 players, head-to-head results against each other, possibility of Olympic seeding and input from coaches.
Said SBA president Lee Yi Shyan: "On all these accounts, Gu Juan has an edge. Therefore, it is fair for us to nominate her to the Singapore National Olympic Council (SNOC)."
The decision, made earlier this month, was unanimous and backed by both the management committee and the coaches, added Lee, who is also the Minister of State for Trade and Industry, and National Development.
The five-man selection committtee comprised Lee, vice-president Ng Yoke Weng, secretary-general Francis Koh, honorary treasurer Lawrence Leow and chief executive officer Bobby Lee.
Fu's achievements in Jakarta last year had been hailed by many, and she is also one of the finalists for the Sportswoman of the Year award which will be unveiled at the Singapore Sports Awards later this month.
Asked if he was confident the SNOC would endorse the nomination, given Fu's SEA Games exploits, Lee said: "I am jumping the gun a bit, but I think they will accept our nomination.
"They are based on very objective factors... (the nomination) does not depend on one specific achievement. On that account, Gu Juan is the more versatile and rounded player for now."
Also, Derek Wong was given the nod for the men's singles slot while Shinta Mulia Sari and Yao Lei were nominated for the women's doubles event.
Shinta said: "Since last month, I have been staying back after every training to correct my weaknesses.
"There is very little time between now and the Olympics and there's no time to correct those errors later."
The singles players, including Gu and Fu, are currently in Taiwan for a three-week training camp and were uncontactable yesterday.
Gu said, via the association: "I feel happy and honoured to be nominated by SBA for the London Olympics. I will do my best in every match."
Also via the SBA, Fu said: "Even though I am not nominated, I will still continue to train hard for the other major events and the next Olympics."
A post in Mandarin by Fu on her Facebook account on Sunday was a little more telling: "Perhaps to find happiness, one cannot give up hope, but must continue to move forward."
