Several political heavyweights in the city expressed disapproval of Chief Executive hopeful Henry Tang's controversial move to disclose what was discussed within the ExecutiveCouncil (ExCo) in 2003 regarding Article 23 protestors, emphasizing that public interest should not override the council's confidentiality.
Tang accused his opponent Leung Chun-ying of advocating the use of riot police and tear gas to deter people from taking to the street to protest against Article 23 legislation. Tang also accused Leung of suffocating freedom of speech by proposing a shorter license duration for Commercial Radio, one of the radio stations in the city, also in 2003.
Chairwoman of the New People's Party and the former Secretary for Security Regina Ip Lau Suk0yee reiterated on Monday that as she recalled, no one in the Executive Council had ever spoken such words about using riot police to suppress those who protested against the legislation of Article 23.
"We shouldn't demand the information excessively just because of public interest," Ip said, adding that Tang's accusation against Leung violated the confidentiality rule since what was discussed in the council should be kept confidential, and neither should anyone's remarks be made public.
"To leak what had been discussed in the council was already a big deal, but it was worse to disclose who said it. It was a serious misconduct, which might result in a 'white terror' and no one will ever express anything again," said Ip.
Echoing Ip, Cheng Yiu0tong, a non-official council member and also chairman of the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions, also expressed his opposition to breach of the confidentiality rule over public interest.
"Confidentiality is not the counterpart of the public interest. The rule aims at allowing the members of the council to express the truth. It is actually for the benefit of the public," said Cheng.
Secretary for Education Michael Suen Ming Yeung refused to comment on Tang's allegation because of the confidentiality rule. However, he said, "A rule is a rule, and if it can be broken, then its not a rule." Suen suggested that Chief Executive Donald Tsang make a comment on the issue later.
Aurthur Li Kwok-cheung, an ex-member of the council and former Secretary for Education and Manpower, earlier strongly backed Leung regarding the issue.
"Tang's accusation against Leung was unfair to him and what was discussed in the council should have been kept secret and (the identity of the person raising the matter) should remain anonymous. Only the result of the discussion was recorded, it is hard for Leung to defend for himself," said Li.
Li, who has previously nominated Leung as chief executive candidate, also denied the fact that Leung had made such a statement when Leung was a member of the council.
Li pointed out that there had been a discussion about whether to renew 12-year license for Commercial Radio because of the pending implementation of digital broadcasts. However, there was no discussion about withholding freedom of speech related to Commercial Radio, he said.
