MIAMI - A judge revoked the bail Friday for a Florida watch captain charged with killing an unarmed black teenager, and ordered him back to jail for misleading the court about his finances.
Prosecutors had filed a motion urging the bond to be revoked and accusing George Zimmerman of deceiving the court about his access to an Internet fundraising account and about holding a second passport, obtained two weeks after the February 26 shooting.
Seminole County Circuit Court Judge Kenneth Lester agreed with the request and revoked the bail for Zimmerman, who was not in court at the time. He said the guard had engaged in a "material falsehood" about his finances in the run-up to his April bail hearing, MSNBC television reported.
Zimmerman faces second-degree murder charges in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin in Sanford, Florida. The case set off a wave of protests because police initially refused to take legal action against Zimmerman, 28, accepting his assertion that he shot the 17-year-old teenager in self-defense.
Following a wave of protests, Zimmerman was arrested April 11 and released on bail April 23. He has since been living at an undisclosed location, amid preliminary hearings and a continuing state investigation.
"This court was led to believe that they didn't have a single penny," trial prosecutor Bernie de la Rionda told the judge.
Zimmerman's wife Shelly "flat out lied to this court" during an April bond hearing, he added.
"I understand that there's frustration because of the way it happened at the bond hearing," Zimmerman's lawyer Mark O'Mara told reporters after the hearing.
"I think Judge Lester runs a very tight courtroom... and he was frustrated because he doesn't think that they were being as straightforward and as honest as he thought they should."
O'Mara said he hoped the bond would only be revoked temporarily.
"I hope that (Lester) will give us a day in court to explain George's behavior and look at all the circumstances," O'Mara said.
Zimmerman "intentionally deceived the court...with the assistance of his wife," read the motion the prosecution filed to revoke the bond.
"During the jailhouse calls, both of them spoke in code to hide what they were doing."
In setting Zimmerman's bond at US$150,000 "the court relied on false representations and statements" by the defendant and his wife, read the document, signed by Special Prosecutor Angela Corey.
Prosecutors say Zimmerman raised tens of thousands of dollars from online donations via a PayPal account for his legal defense, even as he was claiming to have no money.
Last month, O'Mara said that Zimmerman had raised more than US$200,000 through a fund set up through the online payment system PayPal.
That fund, however, was shut down in favor of a new account maintained by a third party.
In April, Zimmerman surrendered to the court a passport that expired in May 2012. But when officials checked the number with passport officials, they discovered that Zimmerman had reported that passport lost or stolen.
The passport office had issued Zimmerman a second passport that expired in 2013 - and Zimmerman spoke to his wife about that passport while in jail, according to recordings of the call included in the prosecution's motion.
