The trip to celebrate her 60th birthday almost went horribly wrong for Violet D'Mello.
Mrs D'Mello, who is from Aberdeen, Scotland, and her husband Archie were visiting the private Kragga Kamma game reserve near Port Elizabeth, South Africa, when she was attacked by supposedly tame cheetahs.
The strange part of the incident was that the husband kept on taking photographs even when his wife was being mauled, Daily Mail reported. Mr D'Mello, 64, a helicopter pilot, said he did not quite realise what was happening.
By the time, he understood the gravity of the situation, his wife had saved herself by playing dead, the report said.
He told the Daily Mail: "I couldn't do anything and the guide didn't even have a stick to defend herself. In the end, a woman from reception came running over with a stick which the guide used to frighten away the cheetahs.
"The attack must have been going on for three minutes at least by then."
The two cheetahs knocked her to the ground and bit her legs and head.
Mrs D'Mello, a mother of two, told BBC: "Something inside me just said, 'Don't move. Don't move at all. Don't react, just play dead'.
"This was meant to be a holiday, but it's really turned into a nightmare."
She said doctors at the hospital said that cheetahs usually aim for the stomach area and disembowel their victims, so she was lucky to be alive.
Mrs D'Mello had entered the enclosure along with another family to pose for a photo with the big cats. One of the cheetahs grabbed a girl from the family and Mrs D'Mello intervened to protect her, The Guardian reported.
She told the South African daily Port Elizabeth Herald: "It all happened in just a few minutes. They weren't being vicious. You could tell they were just excited, but it became serious very quickly."
She said she had been comforting the girl's seven- year-old brother, telling him not to run so he would not aggravate the animals, when the cheetahs turned on her.
"The next thing I knew, I was on the floor and the cheetah was right on top of me. It started scratching me really badly and then I could feel the other one come up too and one of them got my neck in its mouth.
"I was just screaming and trying to get my hands up around my neck to protect myself, but I was being bitten all over my legs and down my side near my kidneys."
Other tourists tried to scare the beasts off as park attendants desperately fought to get them away from the injured woman. Eventually, someone chased them off Mrs D'Mello, and her husband picked her off the floor.
She needed bandages for wounds on her head, stomach and legs, and she was given doses of painkillers and antibiotics.
Said Mr D'Mello: "One of the cheetahs' paws had torn around her right eye... If it had been a centimetre to one side, she could have lost her eye.
"We're very angry about what happened because we were told the situation was safe and it wasn't."
Kragga Kamma park manager Mike Cantor told the Herald it was unclear what sparked the attack.
He said the captive cheetahs, brothers Mark and Monty, had been hand-reared since birth and were considered extremely tame.
He said: "It's not something we've ever really experienced. It's obviously very unfortunate, and we're looking into what may have startled or riled up the cheetahs."
