ROME - Italy's economy slid further into recession in the first three month of this year, the third consecutive quarterly decline in activity and the steepest economic contraction for three years, preliminary figures showed on Tuesday.
The data showing a 0.8 per cent contraction underscores the task facing Prime Minister Mario Monti's technocrat government, which is trying to control Italy's huge public debt - equal to around 120 per cent of output - in the face of a marked recession and rising borrowing costs.
The data was weaker that expectations. A Reuters survey of analysts had pointed to a first quarter decline of 0.6 per cent.
The pace of contraction accelerated slightly from the end of 2011, when gross domestic product fell 0.7 per cent, and was the steepest drop since the first quarter of 2009.
Official statistics agency ISTAT reported that GDP was down 1.3 per cent year-on-year, weaker than forecasts of -1.1 per cent and a far steeper fall than the -0.4 per cent posted at the end of 2011.
"This sharp fall in GDP coupled with soft indicators for the second quarter may feed investors' concern on Italy," said Deutsche Bank's Marco Stringa.
Recent rises in Italy's bond yields, the downgrade of its main banks on Monday by ratings agency Moody's and ongoing economic weakness are likely to hurt consumer morale, investment and banks' lending as the year progresses, Stringa said.
Earlier on Tuesday Germany, the euro zone's largest economy, reported that GDP rose 0.5 per cent q/q in the first quarter, much stronger than expected, while France posted a flat reading.
The three nations make up around two thirds of the euro zone economy.
The gap between the yields on Italian 10-year bonds and the yield on safer German bunds rose on Tuesday to more than 4.4 percentage points, compared with a recent low of around 2.8 points in March.
Last month the Italian government forecast the economy would contract by 1.2 per cent this year, down from a previous forecast of -0.4 per cent, but still above the expectations of most economists and international bodies.
The International Monetary Fund forecasts a much steeper contraction of 1.9 per cent.
A Reuters poll of analysts last month forecast GDP falling every quarter this year, and rising only in the second quarter of 2013.
Italy has been one of the euro zone's most sluggish economies for over a decade. Analysts say radical reforms of the labour market, taxation and bureaucracy, as well as investment in education and infrastructures are needed for it to increase its potential.
