President Ma Ying-jeou said Sunday en route to Africa that he aims to strengthen the nation's relations with allies on the continent on the visit.
"For me this is a significant trip," Ma told members of his delegation and media during the flight. "Not only is this my first visit to Africa as president since I took office (in May 2008) but it is also my first personal trip to the region."
Ma departed Saturday for Burkina Faso, Gambia and Swaziland on a 12-day trip that included a refueling stop in Mumbai, India.
The president made a surprise stopover in Mumbai on his way to Africa in what officials said was a sign of improving ties with India despite a lack of diplomatic recognition.
Ma had kept tight-lipped about the two-hour refueling stop in India until he departed Taipei late Saturday.
Over the past 50 years, Ma said, the Republic of China has been providing assistance to those allies that lack natural resources and has been sharing its valuable development experience and expertise with its allies.
Among one of the countless aid programs, for example, Taiwan funded a project in Burkina Faso that allows students to study at night by the light of solar-powered LED lamps, he said.
Under the project, called "A Lamp Lighting up Africa," students are given LED kits that can be charged during the day and used at night as an alternative to the country's unstable electricity supply.
Ma said he hopes to learn more about the project, which has been extended from Africa to Taiwan's allies in Central and South America and the South Pacific.
Ma said that when he took office four years ago, he made a decision to visit all of Taiwan's 23 diplomatic allies and hopes to visit those in the Caribbean sometime in the near future.
Concerning Ma's unprecedented transit visit to India, spokesman James Chang of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said,"This is a sign of the improving ties with India."
He added that Taiwan plans to open a second liaison office in India, in addition to the one already in New Delhi.
Fang Tien-sze, a visiting and assistant professor at the Graduate Institute of Sociology at National Tsing Hua University and a former official of Taiwan's representative office in India, said Ma's stopover in India is of historical significance.
He is the only Taiwan president to have ever set foot in India, Fang said.
New Delhi values Taipei's technology and economic strength and views Taiwan as a potential key trading partner, Fang said.
However, he also cautioned Taiwan to avoid upsetting India by over interpreting the decision.
Beijing has opposed any overseas visit by senior government officials from Taiwan.
Both sides have previously accused each other of using generous financial packages to ensure the loyalty of governments or persuade them to switch allegiance, especially in Africa, Latin America and the Pacific.
However, ties have improved markedly since Ma of the Kuomintang took office in 2008 and vowed to maintain a "diplomatic truce" with Beijing. Ma was re-elected for a second and final four-year term in January.
