ANKARA- Shots fired from Syria at a Syrian refugee camp inside Turkey are a "clear violation" of the common border between the two countries, Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Tuesday.
Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, who was accompanying Erdogan during an official trip to China, will cut short his visit and fly home Tuesday after the attacks across the border.
On the Turkish border Monday, shots fired from inside Syria wounded four Syrians and two Turkish staff working at a refugee camp in the first case of Syrian fire hitting people on Turkish soil.
"It was a very clear violation of the border," Erdogan told reporters in Beijing.
"Obviously we will take the necessary measures," he was quoted as saying by the Turkish news agency Anatolia.
Erdogan said his country will "use its rights as granted by international law," but did not specify whether Turkey was planning to establish buffer zones or open up humanitarian corridors into Syria, as floated by Turkish media.
However, in an implicit warning at the weekend, the Turkish premier had declared his country would take action if the Damascus regime failed to abide by the April 10 deadline to cease violence.
Monday's attacks across the border prompted Davutoglu to skip the Shanghai leg of the China trip and instead return to Turkey later in the day, Anatolia reported.
The incident, also condemned by Washington, angered Ankara on the eve of a visit by international envoy Kofi Annan to the refugee camps along the border.
Annan arrived at the Turkish-Syrian border at noon Tuesday, while prominent US senators John McCain and Joe Lieberman were also expected to visit the camps.
Washington condemned attacks on Syrian refugees in bordering countries.
Syria faced a deadline Tuesday to withdraw its forces from urban areas after months of bloody clashes, with a peace accord brokered by UN and Arab League envoy Kofi Annan hanging by a thread Tuesday.
Syria's armed forces were supposed to withdraw from urban protest centres Tuesday, with a complete end to fighting designed to avert all-out civil war was scheduled to follow 48 hours later.
Turkey's Davutoglu has intensified diplomatic contacts with the international community and held telephone conversations with four members of the UN Security Council over the Syrian crisis - the United States, Britain, China and Russia - private NTV television reported.
He was expected to speak with French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe Tuesday, it added.
On Monday Washington said Syrian President Bashar al-Assad had shown no sign so far that his government was sticking by the peace plan after signing on to the deal last week.
At least 105 people were killed on Monday, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said after weekend violence claimed almost 180 lives, most of them civilians.
Turkey has been at the forefront of international criticism against Damascus and called on Assad to quit.
