WASHINGTON - US President Barack Obama took a calculated gamble and stepped into the political unknown Wednesday with his firm public backing for gay marriage, after a long period of personal soul searching.
Obama's move, in an interview with ABC News, sent seismic waves through pre-election politics and sparked immediate speculation as to whether he had hurt or hindered his chances of winning a second term in November.
"I've just concluded, for me, personally, it is important for me to go ahead and affirm that I think same-sex couples should be able to get married," Obama told ABC News.
Obama has now abandoned the sheltered but increasingly untenable position that he was "evolving" on gay marriage, an issue that cleaves deep divisions in US politics.
The risks are clear, and in fact dictated Obama's previous stance, despite fierce pressure for a more unequivocal stance from his liberal base.
The sudden injection of a divisive moral question could further cloud Obama's prospects in battleground states that he needs to win a second term in the White House in November's election.
The president has always had trouble connecting with white, blue collar, socially conservative swing voters, and Wednesday's move will hardly help.
A case in point is North Carolina, which Obama won by less than one per cent in 2012 - on Tuesday 61 per cent in the state voted to ban gay marriage, civil unions and domestic partnerships.
Some observers feel Obama could face a backlash from religious Hispanic and African-American voters, on whom he is relying for a repeat of the huge turnout in 2008 that swept him to the White House.
Conservative groups immediately pledged to make Obama pay at the polls.
Tony Perkins of the Family Research Council said that 10 of 16 battleground states already had state constitutional amendments that conflicted with Obama's new position.
"Today's announcement almost ensures that marriage will again be a major issue in the presidential election," Perkins said.
A senior Obama aide said the president's political braintrust was unsure how the marriage issue would play politically, especially in battleground states such as Ohio.
Democrats still shudder when they recall how ballot initiatives in swing states on social issues drove up Republican turnout in 2004 and helped defeat their presidential candidate John Kerry.
Dennis Goldford, a professor of political science at Drake University, Iowa, suggested Obama's decision reflected an "electoral and strategic calculation."
Democrats are more likely to favor full gay rights, and those who most oppose the concept tend to be conservatives who would never vote for the president anyway, he said.
"The question is whether there is anybody in the muddled middle on this issue, that this might alienate. But we don't know at this point."
It is just possible that Obama has pulled off a political masterstroke, and has decided to surf changing attitudes on the issue just at the right moment.
As another senior official explained, public perceptions on gay marriage were changing more quickly than almost any other political issue in America.
More and more people are coming into contact with families with single sex parents - a point Obama made in his interview when he said that he had talked about the issue with his girls, Malia and Sasha.
A Washington Post poll suggests that the US public has, like Obama, been evolving on the issue.
In 2006, only 36 per cent backed legalizing same-sex marriage, but in the latest poll, 52 per cent said they were for it.
The decision is certain to fire up Obama's political base, and give younger supporters seen as less energized than in 2008 a jolt.
Wealthy gay and lesbian voters are also important contributors to Obama's reelection campaign as he fires up his bid to defeat Mitt Romney.
One more question about Obama's move on Wednesday was why now?
He seems to have been pushed into action by his Vice President Joe Biden, who said on NBC on Sunday that he was "absolutely comfortable" with same-sex marriage.
A senior Obama official said that though Biden's move had advanced the process, the president had already concluded that he had to come out for gay marriage before the Democratic National Convention in September.
The official also used the issue to draw a sharp contrast with presumptive Republican nominee Romney, who the Obama camp has been portraying as extreme in a bid to limit his appeal to the key political middle.
He noted that Obama now favored gay marriage while Romney wanted to enshrine discrimination with a federal amendment to the US Constitution banning it.
Moving now, rather than later, is politically smarter than a surprise announcement in October, said Tom Baldino, professor of politics at Wilkes University.
"If I am the President's adviser on his election - I want him to get this out sooner rather than later," said Baldino.
