MADRID - Patricia Herrera, her husband and two children move slowly in a check-in line at Madrid airport with their ten suitcases and dog - the belongings built up during their life in Spain which the crisis has ended.
"I became unemployed, my husband is without work for two years and, with two children, the situation was very difficult, so we decided to return," the 30-year-old said as she prepared to board a flight back to her native Ecuador.
"We are leaving here very sad. It really pains me, and especially my son, because he has grown up here," added Herrera as her two-year-old daughter Desire scampered around her.
Her son Alexis could not hide his disappointment as he helped his parents with the suitcases for a return trip being made by tens of thousands of other Latin Americans in Spain.
"I understand but I don't want to go," said the 15-year-old, who barely knows Ecuador.
"My place is in Spain, I have spent my entire life here. Yesterday I was with my friends, they were crying and on social networking sites I have received many messages that say 'We will miss you'. It is really hard."
Herrera's husband Fabian Cordoba, 32, arrived in Spain 13 years ago and quickly found work as a house painter in a country going through a property boom.
A year later she joined her husband. Two years later Alexis joined them in Spain with his grandmother.
"There was a lot of work, there was work for everyone, there was work left over, instead of the eight hours per day that the law requires you work, you could work 14 hours per day and if you wanted, even more," said Cordoba.
"You could earn a lot of money and life was great," he added.
But in 2008 Spain's housing boom ground to an abrupt halt, sending the eurozone's fourth-largest economy into a tailspin.
The unemployment rate has soared to a record 24.4 per cent, the highest rate in Europe. The jobless rate for immigrants is even higher, at around 35 per cent.
"If for Spaniards things have gone badly, for us it is even worse," said Herrera.
The housing boom drew millions of immigrants to Spain, a nation of 47 million people, mostly from outside the European Union.
The number of foreigners living in the country ballooned from around 500,000 in 1996 to roughly five million a decade later.
Now immigrants are leaving in droves.
The number of foreigners in the country fell by 40,447 last year over the previous year to 5.77 million, according to national statistics institute figures.
The biggest decline of any nationality was registered by Ecuadoreans, whose numbers fell by 15.1 per cent to 360,710.
The number of Colombians dropped 10.4 per cent, the number of Argentinians by 10.2 per cent, the number of Peruvians 8.1 per cent and the number of Bolivians by 7.2 per cent.
Herrera's family received help to return to Ecuador from Ruminahui, a group which represents Ecuadoreans living in Spain.
The organisation provided them with plane tickets and a check of 1,800 euros (S$2,906) which was covered by funds provided to Ruminahui by the Spanish government.
"We have a very long list of people who are very desperate, who want to return to their countries because they have lost everything here," said Ruminahui president Vladimir Paspuel.
Herrera said things started to go wrong for her family after they bought their own apartment in Torrejon de Ardoz, a Madrid suburb, for 224,000 euros.
The mortgage had a variable rate and it rose from 800 to 1,500 euros per month.
"Our salaries were completely gobbled up by the mortgage," she said.
When she lost her job as a cleaning lady, the mortgage payments stopped and the bank seized their flat.
Now they must start from scratch in Alamor, a small town in southern Ecuador where they will live with Herrera's parents-in-law.
"We are going without knowing what we are going to do," she said as she put her eight-month-old Shar Pei dog named Roger into a cage for the flight to Quito.
Her husband said he is convinced that in Ecuador "we can live better."
"I have many friends who have returned and they are doing much better than they were here," he added.
