PARIS - Marine Le Pen's hopes of transforming the 6.4 million votes she received in her failed bid for France's presidency into a major parliamentary presence for her far-right National Front have dwindled.
Even Le Pen herself may not manage to win a seat in parliamentary elections opening with a first round this Sunday and followed by a run-off vote a week later, opinion polls say.
In the highlight of an otherwise lacklustre election, Le Pen is tipped to lose in the northern constituency of Henin-Beaumont to the firebrand leftist favourite Jean-Luc Melenchon, another failed presidential candidate.
Henin-Beaumont is one of more than a dozen constituencies in which the National Front (FN) hopes to win parliamentary seats for the first time since 1986 and challenge the right-wing UMP party of ex-president Nicolas Sarkozy.
Its strongest chances are in a string of constituencies in the north and southeast, including one where party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen's 22-year-old granddaughter, Marion Marechal-Le Pen, is running.
"We will be the only and the real protectors of the French people who slave away, who struggle, who just can't handle things anymore," Marine Le Pen told supporters at a recent Paris rally.
Le Pen wants to pull France out of the euro and rails against globalisation and the "Islamisation" of her country.
In an interview published in an Austrian daily on Friday she hopes for "the collapse of the European Union, to make a Europe of nations possible," again.
Her record score in last month's presidential election echoed advances by populist parties across Europe as the eurozone's lingering debt crisis fuels anger over harsh austerity measures, joblessness and ailing economies.
Le Pen won 18 per cent of the vote and her party is tipped to win around 14 per cent of the national vote in the legislative elections, making it through to the second round run-off in dozens of constituencies.
But it may still end up with just a handful of seats or even none at all due to France's first-past-the-post electoral system.
The Socialists and their left-wing allies have made a deal that only the candidate who scores best in the first round will stand again in the second round. But the UMP has refused to make a similar deal with the National Front, so the right-wing vote will split in the second round in dozens of constituencies. A survey released this week showed Hollande's Socialists and other left-wing parties with 45.5 per cent of the vote, ahead of the right-wing UMP and its allies with 34 per cent. With those support levels, the Socialists and its parliamentary allies would win between 249 and 291 seats in the 577-seat National Assembly, with 289 seats needed to form a majority, the Ipsos-Logica poll said. The left overall - including Melenchon's Left Front and the Greens - would take between 303 and 357 seats. The UMP would win between 209 and 255 seats and the right overall, excluding the far right, would take 220 to 274. The National Front and the centre-right MoDem would both get between zero and three seats. If that prediction comes true, it will put paid to Le Pen's triumphant prediction that the FN had "exploded the monopoly of the two parties" that have dominated national politics. The FN will thus likely remain a fringe group that snipes from the sidelines and is treated as a pariah by the mainstream parties. Hollande has received all the main political leaders at the Elysee Palace since taking over from Sarkozy, but he has pointedly failed to invite Le Pen. "Mr. Hollande is doing exactly the same as his predecessor," said Le Pen. "It's a real scandal." Le Pen, a seasoned politician before she took over the party leadership last year, has sought to transcend the bigoted image of the National Front she inherited from her firebrand father. But critics say she represents the same old hard-right party in new clothes, playing on voters' sensitivities over France's Muslim population, estimated at up to six million. Like her father, who in 2002 scored a major upset by making it into the second round of the presidential election, she has caused outrage with some outspoken comments. Last year she compared Muslims praying in the streets outside overcrowded mosques in France to the Nazi occupation. The only time the National Front held seats in the French parliament was from 1986-88 under a short-lived proportional repesentation system.
