KABUL - At the Spozhmai hotel, the scene of a bloody 12-hour siege by Taliban militants, only the weeping of bereaved relatives and the shouts of security officials broke the silence on Friday.
Instead of the usual happy crowds celebrating the first day of the Afghan weekend, the lakeside spot near Kabul stood bloodied and battered after the militant assault overnight which left at least 16 people dead.
The upmarket hotel, popular with the wealthy elite of the Afghan capital, was turned into a scene of destruction and butchery after insurgents with guns and rockets stormed the venue late on Thursday evening.
Pools of blood and broken glass covered the floor in the main dining room, where the bodies of three young Afghan men gunned down as they sat at a table enjoying energy drinks.
A middle-aged man stood sobbing over the body of his nephew.
&ldquo;Yesterday he told me they were coming to this place for a nice evening, now he's lying there dead,&rdquo; he cried.
On a balcony overlooking the lake, a 22nd birthday cake lay half eaten on a table surrounded by a dozen empty chairs, while nearby sprawled the bloodied body of a young man shot repeatedly in the chest.
Like many of the those who fell victim to the militants' bloody onslaught at the Spozhmai he was dressed in Western clothes jeans, T-shirt and sports shoes.
For some, the attack prompted a desperate bid for survival police said they recovered the bodies of three people who jumped into the lake in an effort to save themselves from the Kalashinikov-wielding extremists.
Witness Sharifullah, 30, searched desperately through the wreckage of the Spozhmai for his friend who he lost in the chaos and bloodshed.
&ldquo;It was at around 10:30 when I saw three armed men entering the area where people, families had gathered. Moments later the shooting broke out, people panicked and started screaming,&rdquo; he told AFP.
&ldquo;I threw myself in a ditch but saw bullets hitting a father, his son and wife who were sitting around a table near me.
&ldquo;I am not sure if they survived, security forces arrived 20 minutes later, but the shooting continued.&rdquo;
Elsewhere the bloodied bodies of the attackers, all wearing traditional Shalwar Kameez, lay twisted on the ground.
Outside in the car park, customers' expensive new four-wheel-drive cars stood riddled with bullets.
