PARIS - Outgoing French leader Nicolas Sarkozy's cabinet met for its last session on Wednesday as president-elect Francois Hollande held talks with top Socialists to gear up for next month's parliamentary vote.
Hollande also held consultations on forming a government and preparing for his first foreign visit to Berlin, where he is expected to get a frosty reception over his plans to renegotiate the European fiscal austerity pact.
Hollande, who defeated Sarkozy on Sunday, met with senior party officials at his campaign headquarters as he prepared to take office formally on May 15.
Heading into the meeting, the officials said talks were focused on securing the Socialists a majority in the two-round parliamentary vote on June 10 and 17.
"We are closing one period and opening another, that of the parliamentary elections," party leader Martine Aubry told journalists. "It is important not to slacken our efforts."
Winning a majority of seats in June will be crucial for the Socialists as the president requires a parliamentary majority to maintain a government - otherwise the prime minister is in charge of the executive.
Sarkozy meanwhile was meeting with ministers for his government's last session, where Prime Minister Francois Fillon was expected to take stock of the right-winger's five-year term.
Hollande's transition chief Pierre Moscovici said the handover was going smoothly and praised Sarkozy for helping things along.
Sarkozy "ran a tough campaign, but he has chosen to make a dignified exit," Moscovici told Europe 1 radio. "The handover is taking place under easy conditions."
Sarkozy indicated on Sunday that he was retiring from frontline politics.
His communications advisor Franck Louvrier said Sarkozy was preparing to return to his former life as a lawyer at the Paris firm he still partly owns, after taking a break with his wife Carla Bruni and their baby daughter.
Hollande is facing a packed international agenda after his inauguration and pressure was already building on the Socialist to stand by France's austerity commitments.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has made clear she will not renegotiate the fiscal pact setting tough budgetary rules for EU states, which she spearheaded along with Sarkozy.
In a letter to Hollande on Tuesday she said she welcomed talks with the Socialist but that Europe was counting on France and Germany to take the "necessary decisions" to resolve the bloc's debt crisis.
A German member of the European Central Bank's board also warned France to honour its fiscal commitments.
"I expect France to implement the fiscal pact unchanged," Joerg Asmussen told the German daily Handelsblatt in an interview published Wednesday.
"In addition, I expect the new government to respect the promise to reduce the public deficit next year below the three per cent (of GDP) mark."
Non-EU nations that hold European debt have raised similar concerns, including in Japan where Finance Minister Jun Azumi on Tuesday warned France to stick by "what has been decided so far".
Hollande promised cheering supporters Sunday that he would reopen talks to ensure the EU fiscal pact focused on growth rather than simply imposing deficit-cutting austerity rules.
EU president Herman Van Rompuy announced Tuesday that the bloc's leaders would meet on May 23 for an informal dinner ahead of an EU summit on June 28 and 29 that is expected to focus on growth.
Observers say there will be room for compromise as Hollande may accept additional measures to foster growth while retaining the austerity pact's original wording.
The uncertainty generated by Hollande's election and the political turmoil in Greece, where election gains by hard-left and extreme-right parties stripped the ruling coalition of its majority, have riled the markets.
European stock markets rebounded slightly at the start of trading on Wednesday but suffered sharp losses on Tuesday. Asian markets and the euro also fell Wednesday.
