SARAJEVO - A young German woman police say was held captive and abused for years by a Bosnian couple was found hiding in the woods, covered in fresh bruises and old scars, prosecutors said Monday.
Police arrested a Roma couple, Milenko and Slavojka Marinkovic, at their home in the northeast Bosnian hamlet of Karavlasi after getting a tip-off on May 17 that they were keeping a young woman locked up and had forced her to eat pig feed and pull them on a horse-cart.
The "young woman was found in the woods near the Marinkovic's property," local prosecution spokesman Admir Arnautovic told AFP.
"She was really disoriented, scared, with visible injuries on her body. She had a lot old scars but also a lot of fresh bruises on her legs, arms and head," he said.
The Bosnian authorities put the woman, identified by family members as 19-year-old German Bettina Siegner, in a safe house, where she underwent medical examinations.
Prosecutors are trying to confirm the girl's name in both Bosnia and Germany as she had no identity documents, Arnautovic said.
She was exposed to physical abuse but no evidence was found of sexual abuse, he said, adding that police estimated the maltreatment had gone on for about eight years.
Local media reported that the woman arrived in Bosnia from Germany with her mother in 2004 and that her mother may have entered into a sham marriage with Milenko Marinkovic to allow him to obtain a German residency permit.
The mother, Christine Siegner, who lived between Karavlasi and Germany for several years and was in the village at the time of the arrests, has been questioned as a witness.
When AFP spoke to her Sunday she burst into tears and denied the accusations.
"It's all a lie. We all lived very well here. It's a fabrication," Christine Siegner said in German, speaking from the Marinkovic house and surrounded by members of the Roma family.
"I hope that they will bring her back," she added tearfully, gazing at her daughter's picture.
According to members of the Marinkovic family, Siegner is Milenko's second wife, which is not unusual in this Bosnian Roma community.
They say the couple met Siegner when they fled to Germany during Bosnia's 1992-1995 war and she put them up in her home.
Several years after the couple returned to Bosnia, Siegner joined them with her daughter Bettina, from her previous marriage.
The neighbour who raised the alarm about the case told AFP he witnessed the couple treating Bettina like an animal.
"We were very good neighbours, but I was obliged to denounce them. I could not stomach the brutalities that this young girl was exposed to," Sead Makalic, surrounded by some dozen villagers who unanimously agreed with him, said.
Makalic said he had noticed the "bizarre behaviour" of his neighbours towards the young woman, including making her eat pig food.
"I saw how they were beating her. She was forced to do hard labour, to plough, chop and carry wood," Makalic explained.
Miko Marinkovic, a brother of the main suspect, claimed the whole thing was a "conspiracy" and accused the neighbour of only tipping off the police because he wanted their land.
"His plan is to chase us from here and take our land. We own 40 hectares (99 acres)," he told AFP.
However, the brother admitted that Bettina was never registered with local authorities and claimed she did not go to school because she has a mental handicap.
Prosecutors told AFP that the girl is also undergoing psychological evaluation.
