BERLIN - The finance ministers of France and Germany were to hold crisis talks in Berlin Monday, aiming to resolve differences ahead of a key European summit as debt-stricken Greece flirts with a eurozone exit.
Wolfgang Schaeuble hosts Pierre Moscovici to thrash out a common line for Wednesday's Brussels summit, after a meeting of G8 leaders Saturday left Berlin looking increasingly isolated with its austerity-driven solution to the crisis.
While the leaders of the world's top economies stressed their unity on keeping Greece in the eurozone, they acknowledged that "the right measures are not the same for each of us" - a sign that deep-seated divisions remain.
EU leaders will seek to bridge these differences at an informal summit on Wednesday, aiming to lay foundations for a new "growth" strategy and agree cross-border borrowing to kick-start targeted investment. Moscovici was likely to press Schaeuble on more measures to bolste r growth in the crisis-hit eurozone, after the German minister said Berlin was ready to discuss everything but dismissed stimulus moves that would add more debt.
The first meeting between the two men was also likely to focus on France's call, repeated by new French President Francois Hollande at the G8, for collectively issued eurobonds, a crisis solution rejected by Berlin.
A top German finance ministry official, Steffen Kampeter, reiterated Berlin's opposition to the idea early on Monday, telling German radio it was "wrong medicine at the wrong time with the wrong side-effects."
Discussion was also expected to revolve around the EU's new fiscal pact, a treaty pushed through by Chancellor Angela Merkel, which Hollande has said he wants to renegotiate to include more measures to boost economic output.
But a German member of the European Central Bank's Executive Board, Joerg Asmussen, insisted Monday in Berlin that the pact, which reproves nations for missing budget targets, "should not be renegotiated or watered down."
With markets still on edge as they wait for signs at Wednesday's informal EU summit that leaders are getting to grips with the crisis, Berenberg Bank analyst Holger Schmieding cautioned that time was short.
"Merkel and Hollande know that they cannot afford to argue for long," he said in a research note.
And in a reminder that the crisis was not limited to Greece, Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos predicted that Spain, already plunged into recession with record-high unemployment, would shrink again in the second quarter.
Madrid had already unsettled markets by revising higher its 2011 public deficit on Friday, projecting 8.9 percent of gross domestic product instead of 8.51 percent as reported earlier.
Nevertheless, Europe's stock markets opened flat on Monday, as traders digested the G8 meeting and focused on the leaders' expressed determination for Greece to stay in the eurozone.
London's benchmark FTSE 100 index dipped 0.04 percent to 5,265.36 points, Frankfurt's DAX 30 nudged down 0.03 percent to 6,269.31 points and in Paris the CAC 40 fell 0.37 percent to 2,997.19.
The euro also bounced back from four-month lows against the dollar after the G8 weekend announcement.
However, not all economists were impressed by the G8 meeting and its attitude to the crisis.
Paul Donovan, an analyst at Swiss bank UBS, dismissed the G8 statement as "almost an insult to the intelligence of the long suffering electorates of those (G8) economies."
"The UK wants quantitative policies. France wants eurobonds. Germany wants discipline. Contemplating this, economists want a drink," he quipped.
Meanwhile, Europe's top politicians piled the pressure on Greece ahead of a second election in six weeks on June 17, which is shaping up to be effectively a vote on whether or not they wish to stay in the 17-nation eurozone bloc.
France's new Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius told French radio earlier Monday: "Everyone needs to understand that what is at stake is whether or not Greece stays in the euro."
The leader of one of the main anti-austerity parties, Alexis Tsipras from the radical leftist Syriza, embarks on trips to France and Germany starting Monday to meet fellow far-left politicians.
Asmussen said the ECB's preference was for Greece to remain in the eurozone.
"That's the Plan A, that's what we're working on," he said.
