UNITED KINGDOM - Some 200 drunk university students clashed onboard a &pound;180 million (S$360m) ferry during a ski trip to the Alps.
They created so much havoc that some scared passengers even had to be moved to a secure room away from the ruckus.
Undergraduates from two universities - the University of Manchester and Manchester Metropolitan University - smashed glasses, overturned tables and set ashtrays alight on P&amp;O's ship the Spirit of France, reported the Daily Mail.
The ferry was sailing from Dover to Calais last Sunday evening when 200 students clashed.
The ferry's captain, Mr Steve Johnson, condemned the behaviour of the students.
He told The Sun: "There was dancing on the tables and bottles kicked off tables.
"Males and females were exposing themselves in generally drunken, loutish behaviour. There were many complaints."
Mr Johnson's crew also criticised the student groups, and said that many boarded the ferry in a drunken state.
This eventually led to streaking and fighting at the bar.
A spokesman for P&amp;O told The Mail Online: "Discussions with the tour operators and the universities have taken place to ensure appropriate standards are followed onboard.
"We don't want to prevent people who go on these trips and behave themselves, but we don't want to end up with the scenario where we disturb other passengers as we saw last week."
Four coachloads of students were among 1,559 people, including elderly people and families with young children, on the 2.20am sailing, reported The Sun.
The Manchester Metropolitan University said it was investigating the incident.
Students at the Manchester University have already been warned over their drunken behaviour.
They were told that they face expulsion following a growing number of complaints from local residents near student housing last month.
Officials are believed to be in the process of writing a clause into their student charters, that will be introduced in September.
That will see strict off-campus rules in place in a bid to deter students from their antics.
