SYDNEY - Australia's parliamentary Speaker stood aside yesterday, following claims that he sexually harassed a male staff member and misused taxi services in a case that could hurt the nation's fragile government.
Weekend reports alleged that Mr Peter Slipper harassed former staff member James Ashby, including telling him to shower with the door open when he stayed at his home, and "moaning" in a sexual manner after asking him for a massage.
The married Mr Slipper, 62, was also accused of misusing taxpayer-funded taxi services.
The Australian Broadcasting Corporation said that Mr Ashby, who is 33 and openly gay, launched legal action under the Fair Work Act, detailing alleged explicit text messages, unwanted sexual advances and inappropriate comments towards him.
Mr Slipper arrived in Australia from the United States yesterday and released a statement "emphatically" denying the allegations.
"The allegations include both a claim of criminal behaviour and claim under civil law," he said, adding that such accusations were "grave".
"Therefore, I believe it is appropriate for me to stand aside as Speaker while this criminal allegation is resolved.
"The allegation is incorrect and once it is clear they are untrue, I shall return to the speakership. In relation to the civil matter, there will be an appropriate process that will resolve the matter in due course."
The conservative opposition earlier demanded that he be removed from Parliament until the issue was resolved, as claims of sexual misconduct from 2003 involving him and another male staff member also surfaced. In that incident, reports said that a video existed of him lying on a bed and hugging a male junior staff member "in an intimate fashion".
The Sydney Sunday Telegraph said that he would face a parliamentary vote to oust him if he did not stand aside.
His decision to step down before Parliament returns on May 8 heads off what could have been a messy dilemma for the government, with any move to unseat him potentially overshadowing the budget, due to be handed down on the same day.
He defected from opposition leader Tony Abbott's Liberal Party last year so he could be appointed Speaker. It stripped one vote from the opposition and shored up Prime Minister Julia Gillard's ruling Labor Party's wafer-thin hold on power.
If he is forced to resign, Labor would have to appoint one of its own MPs as Speaker, reducing its numbers in the Lower House. Labor currently has 75 votes to the opposition's 73.
In the interim, Labor MP and Deputy Speaker Anna Burke will take the role, Mr Slipper said in his statement.
Ms Gillard said his standing aside was the right thing to do.
"It is appropriate that Mr Slipper has stood aside as Speaker while alleged criminal conduct is investigated," she said in a short statement.
