LONDON - British Prime Minister David Cameron and deputy Nick Clegg were on Tuesday to relaunch the ailing coalition government after both ruling parties suffered a mauling in mid-term elections.
Conservative Party leader Cameron and Liberal Democrat boss Clegg will make a joint visit to a factory in south England, during which the prime minister will reiterate his commitment to the coalition and its economic policies.
"Two years ago our two parties came together to form a strong coalition," Cameron will say, according to a statement released by his Downing Street office.
"We agreed that our number one priority was to keep Britain safe from the financial storm and to rescue our economy from the mess left by the last Labour government."
The Conservative/Liberal Democrat coalition, which marks its two-year anniversary this week, was rocked by heavy losses for both parties in last week's local elections, capping off a bruising month.
Clegg plans to use his own speech on Tuesday to insist that both camps take stock after the opposition Labour Party took control of 32 councils and won more than 800 seats at the expense of the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats.
"Our parties came together to rescue, repair and reform our economy," he will say. "We are taking the tough choices not because we want to, but because we have to."
Tuesday's joint appearance will be a far cry from the pair's cheery press conference in the sunny rose garden of the prime minister's Downing Street residence in May 2010 when they launched the coalition.
The most damaging recent development has been Britain's slide back into recession during the first quarter, raising doubts about the coalition's policy of austerity.
However, Cameron was to use Tuesday's speech in Essex to dismiss any suggestions his government should change course.
"In these perilous times it's more important than ever for Britain that we stick to it (fiscal tightening)," he will say, according to the Number Ten statement.
"There can be no going back on our carefully judged strategy for restoring the public finances.
"I don't hide from the scale of that challenge - or from the message sent by voters in many places in last week's elections. I'm listening. I'm leading. I get it," he will add.
Cameron will credit his government's deficit-reduction plan for allowing the Bank of England to keep borrowing rates at 0.5 per cent, and will argue that sustainable growth cannot be achieved through higher government debt.
He will also call for a more balanced economy that is less dependent on the financial sector.
"We've got to sort out our debts...get real growth...and change this country so that once again it rewards people who work hard, want to get on and play by the rules," Cameron was to insist.
"And that's what I am here to do."
On Wednesday the Queen's Speech - delivered by Queen Elizabeth II but written by the government - will set out the coalition's plans for the coming new session of parliament.
Cameron has been under pressure from the right-wing of his party to drop plans for legalising gay marriage and reforming the House of Lords, the upper house of parliament.
Cameron also faces potential embarrassment when two former aides of Rupert Murdoch testify this week at the Leveson inquiry into the phone-hacking scandal at the now-shuttered News of the World newspaper.
Andy Coulson, who was Cameron's media chief from 2007-2011, appears on Thursday. On Friday it is the turn of Rebekah Brooks, Cameron's friend and the former head of News International, Murdoch's British newspaper wing.
