LIVERPOOL - QPR's volatile captain Joey Barton was punched in the face outside a Liverpool nightclub in the early hours of Monday.
The midfielder was involved in a fight with two men, and a picture of the incident, apparently showing a shirtless Barton being held back by police and a woman, appeared on Twitter.
A Merseyside Police spokeswoman said on Monday: "Merseyside Police were called to Eberle Street in Liverpool city centre at 5.30am this morning following reports of an altercation.
"On arrival officers found a 29-year-old man who had sustained injuries to his face. The man left the scene voluntarily.
"Two 21-year-old men from the L13 area were arrested at the scene for a public order offence. They are currently in police custody."
Ian Taylor, a spokesman for QPR, added: "Joey Barton was involved in an incident in Liverpool city centre in the early hours of Monday morning.
"Barton was on his way home from a night out with his girlfriend when two men sang offensive chants and then proceeded to hit the R's midfielder.
"Police were immediately on the scene and arrested one man.
"Barton decided not to press charges and left the scene with his girlfriend soon after. The club will be making no further comment."
Liverpool-born Barton has a long history of controversy on and off the pitch and has become well-known for his voicing his opinions about football and the world at large on Twitter.
In 2004, Barton, then playing for Manchester City, hit the headlines after he stubbed out a cigar in the eye of apprentice Jamie Tandy.
His time at City also included an ugly incident when he left team-mate Ousmane Dabo looking like "the elephant man" after a training ground brawl.
Barton was given a six-month jail term in 2008 after admitting assault and affray during an incident in Liverpool.
Last month, he was given a 12-match ban by the Football Association (FA), after being sent off during QPR's defeat at Manchester City on the final day of the Premier League season.
His future at QPR remains in doubt as the club are also carrying out an internal investigation into the incident at City, which saw him elbow Carlos Tevez, kick out at Serio Aguero and then attempt to headbutt Vincent Kompany.
