Zinedine Zidane, who captained the French football team that won the World Cup in 1998, has done a Warren Buffett.
Mr Buffett, one of the richest men in the world, has backed a US law which requires individuals with adjusted gross income of more than US$1 million (S$1.26 million), or US$500,000 for married individuals filing separately, to pay at least 30 per cent in taxes.
The American has admitted that he paid almost nothing on his investment income, which runs into billions of dollars.
Zidane, too, feels that the rich should be taxed more. The former Real Madrid star has waded into the row over French President Fran&ccedil;ois Hollande's plan to tax millionaires 75 per cent, saying it is "logical" that the rich pay more.
The only problem is he pays his taxes in Spain, British daily The Telegraph reported.
Zidane told French newspaper Le Monde: "I have never had a problem with paying my taxes, of handing over 50 centimes (French for cent) for every euro earned."
He admitted that he does not pay tax in France, but insisted that it changed nothing. He said: "I don't live in France but I don't live in a tax haven. I live in Spain, I pay my taxes like everyone.
"Today, with what's happening (the economic crisis), they are going to ask for money from people who have it. It's logical."
According to French media, the proposed tax will affect up to 150 French football players. But not all of them are happy to pay up.
"It's shooting successful people in the foot," Paris Saint-Germain defender Christophe Jallet recently complained.
More than three-fifths of the French approved of the super-high tax rate in one poll held during the French presidential campaign. Some have warned it will lead to an exodus of high earners.
Mr Hollande is due to raise taxes by 29 billion euros (S$46 billion) in the next 18 months as he seeks to bring down France's deficit to 4.5 per cent of gross domestic product by next year.
But with slower-than-expected growth forecasts, economists said he will have no option but to make drastic public spending cuts.
Meanwhile, "Zizou", who turned 40 yesterday, admitted that the happiest days of his life were with the ball at his feet.
Zidane, who is the sporting director at Real Madrid, told Goal.com: "Of course, I was happier on the pitch. It was my dream life and now I lead a totally different one. The happiness is, therefore, also different."
