MILWAUKEE - The union-busting Republican governor in the US presidential battleground state of Wisconsin on Tuesday survived a recall election aimed at ousting him mid-term, US media projected.
Governor Scott Walker, elected in 2010, prompted mass protests - and ultimately, the rare special election - after pushing through legislation last year to radically curb the power of public sector unions.
Republicans, who had cast Tuesday's recall election as a referendum on their policies and a preview of November's matchup between President Barack Obama and rival Mitt Romney, claimed a "momentous victory" for their camp.
"After tonight's results, Democrats and the Obama campaign are surely nervous," Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus said in a statement.
"Wisconsin Democrats now head into November dispirited and in disarray, while Republicans remain strong and organized, with momentum on our side."
CNN, Fox News and NBC News all projected that Walker would keep his job. Just two other governors have ever faced a recall in US history, and both were ousted by angry voters.
With 70 per cent of precincts reporting, Walker had won 57 per cent of the vote as compared to 42 per cent for Democratic challenger Tom Barrett, CNN reported. An independent candidate took one per cent of the vote.
"Bringing our state together will take some time, but I hope to start right away," Walker said in a statement. "It is time to put our differences aside and figure out ways that we can move Wisconsin forward."
Romney said the results of the race - which saw the Republican party spend millions of dollars, far more than Democrats - would "echo beyond the borders of Wisconsin" and predicted a similar party victory in November.
"Governor Walker has demonstrated over the past year what sound fiscal policies can do to turn an economy around, and I believe that in November voters across the country will demonstrate that they want the same in Washington, DC," Romney said in a statement.
"Tonight voters said 'no' to the tired, liberal ideas of yesterday, and 'yes' to fiscal responsibility and a new direction."
Democratic National Committee spokesman Brad Woodhouse hit back in a series of tweets, noting that Obama "won WI by 14 (points) in 2008 and in exit poll tonight beat Romney by 11" and attacking Romney's plans to crush unions.
Unions are the biggest source of financial and grassroots, get-out-the-vote organizational support for Obama's Democrats, and have long been a target of business-backed Republicans.
Wisconsin was one of a number of states which swept Obama to victory in 2008 and then handed control of the state legislature to Republicans in the 2010 mid-term elections.
While the Democrats will surely face criticism for failing to push harder to oust Walker, experts say the results remain a largely local phenomenon.
"I come down squarely against the idea that this has national significance or ramifications," said Kathleen Dolan, a political science professor at the University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee.
"This is such an idiosyncratic election and it is fought around such specific terms or incidents and there are so many other factors that are going to drive the presidential election."
Obama had largely stayed out of the bitter battle, as polls pointed toward a likely victory for Walker.
While former president Bill Clinton visited Milwaukee last week to rally support for Barrett, Obama's endorsement took the form of a personally signed - and rather late - tweet.
"It's Election Day in Wisconsin tomorrow, and I'm standing by Tom Barrett. He'd make an outstanding governor. -bo," Obama tweeted Monday.
In a sign of concern, the Obama campaign shifted resources to Wisconsin - which it now considers a "tossup" - even though the Democratic incumbent maintains a significant advantage there in the polls.
"Their own people have gotten spooked by it, which I think is foolish," said Larry Sabato, director of the University of Virginia's Center for Politics.
"Could Romney carry it? Only if the economy goes downhill and Romney ends up carrying states like Pennsylvania," Sabato said in an interview before the results were released.
