CAIRO - Egypt's top constitutional court on Thursday ruled the whole Islamist-dominated parliament illegitimate, paving the way for the military to resume legislative powers, state media and a military source said.
"The constitutional court affirmed in the details of its verdict that the parliamentary elections were not constitutional, and the entire composition of parliament has been illegitimate since its election," the official MENA news agency reported.
Members of the ruling military council were in a meeting and did not immediately issue a statement. But a military source said the court decision gave the military legislative powers.
"We don't want it (the power) but according to the court decision and that law, it reverts back to us," the source said.
Its constitutional court ruled on Thursday that a third of the seats in the Islamist-dominated parliament were invalid, stirring fresh uncertainty in the politically divided country.
"The constitutional court ruled unconstitutional some articles of the parliamentary election law related to the direct vote system," MENA reported, referring to the third of seats elected on a first-past-the-post system.
The ruling military decided on a complex electoral system in which voters cast ballots for party lists which made up two thirds of parliament and also for individual candidates for the remaining seats in the lower house.
The individual candidates were meant to be "independents" but members of political parties were subsequently allowed to run, giving the Muslim Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party an advantage.
That decision was challenged in court.
The ruling will cast all of parliament's legitimacy into question. Parliament speaker Saad al-Katatni, an Islamist, had said before the ruling that the house would have to consider how to implement it.
In the absence of a constitution, suspended after last year's overthrow of president Hosni Mubarak, no authority had the right to dissolve parliament, Katatni said.
He said one possibility would be to hold by-elections for the seats ruled unconstitutional.
Meanwhile, Egypt's top court on Thursday ruled unconstitutional a law that would have barred ousted strongman Hosni Mubarak's last premier Ahmed Shafiq from standing in a tense presidential poll runoff.
"The Supreme Constitutional Court has ruled that the political isolation law is unconstitutional," the state MENA news agency reported.
The court was examining the legality of the political isolation law which bars senior officials of the Mubarak regime and top members of his now-dissolved National Democratic Party from standing for public office for 10 years.
The law applies to those who served in the 10 years prior to Mubarak's ouster on February 11, 2011 after an 18-day popular uprising.
The ruling comes two days before a landmark presidential runoff on Saturday between Shafiq and Muslim Brotherhood candidate Mohammed Mursi.
