VATICAN CITY - Pope Benedict XVI feels betrayed by his butler, who was arrested during an investigation into Vatican whistle blowers, and is determined to root out moles, spokesman Federico Lombardi said Tuesday.
"The pope is a witness to a case which touches him closely. It is a trial for him. He is suffering but also desires to understand, shed light on the matter, and discover the truth," Lombardi said at a press conference.
"He is particularly hurt with regard to one person, Paolo Gabriele, who he was close to, who he knew, loved and respected," Lombardi said in reference to Benedict's butler, who was arrested after he was found in possession of secret papal papers.
Lombardi denied Italian media reports that five cardinals had been interrogated as part of the investigation into the leak of confidential documents to newspapers, but said that searches were still being carried out.
Gabriele's arrest was greeted with disbelief as the 46-year-old was known for his papal devotion and loyalty and there has been speculation he was a simply a pawn in a game of intrigue and struggle for power inside the Holy See.
His lawyers on Monday said he would "collaborate widely" with Vatican authorities, sparking wild speculation in the national media that the butler may be about to spill the beans on other whistle blowers.
Gabriele, who has worked at the Vatican since 2006 and was one of a select few with access to the pope's private quarters, was arrested a month after Benedict set up a special commission of cardinals to probe the leaks.
The documents, splashed in the national media and published in a book, have shed light on many Vatican secrets, including the Church's tax problems, child sex scandals and negotiations with hardline traditionalist rebels.
Italian media have speculated that the leaks could be a part of a power-struggle within the Vatican that aims to replace the Church's powerful number two, Secretary of State Tarcisio Bertone, and maybe even the pope himself.
But Bertone's deputy, Archbishop Angelo Becciu, on Tuesday said that the leaks did not expose rifts within the Church but showed that its members felt free to express their opinions.
The leaked documents "don't reveal power struggles or vendettas but this freedom of thought, precisely what the Church is reproached for not authorising," Becciu told the Vatican's Osservatore Romano daily, becoming the most senior Holy See official to publicly quote on the scandal.
"We're not mummies, and diverse points of view... are normal."
He said Benedict was extremely hurt by the affair.
"What Benedict XVI is going through is brutal - he has seen the publication of documents stolen from his home that are not only private correspondence but also... confidences that he has received only because of his" position, he said.
"The pope is particularly hurt by the violence experienced by the authors of the letters addressed to him," he added.
