SYDNEY - Australia said Tuesday it will compensate the Rupert Murdoch-linked Sky News, reportedly to the tune of Aus$2 million (S$2.6 million), over an aborted tender to run its international TV service.
The Australian Broadcasting Corporation and Sky News had been vying for the 10-year, Aus$223 million contract to run the Australia Network when Canberra abruptly ended the process last year.
Communications Minister Stephen Conroy then awarded the deal for the service, which broadcasts into Asia, to national broadcaster ABC, prompting Sky to say it expected to be fully compensated.
"In terms of compensation, a settlement has been reached, with the terms of that settlement confidential to the parties," a spokeswoman for Conroy said Tuesday, refusing to confirm reports that the amount was Aus$2 million.
The development follows the release of a stinging report by the auditor general into the tender process which was aborted by the government in November following "significant leaks of confidential information to the media".
The leaks had suggested that Sky was poised to win the contract to run a network which screens in more than 44 countries in Asia and the Pacific.
At the time, the government decided that the leaks had compromised the tender and it should be terminated.
The report details a range of problems with the process, including initial confusion within the government over how the decision on the successful applicant would be made.
It concluded that the tender "has presented the Australian government in a poor light".
The Australia Network is a government-funded overseas TV broadcasting service established to pursue foreign and trade policy objectives, including promoting Canberra's engagement in the Asia-Pacific and Indian subcontinent.
Provided by the ABC since 2001, the service is free-to-air and broadcasts a mix of news and current affairs, English-language education programmes, documentaries, drama, sports and children's shows.
Sky News is part-owned by Britain's BSkyB, which in turn is part-owned by Murdoch's News Corporation.
