The mobile phone clip shows the 68-year-old grandmother of eight trying her best to ignore taunts such as "fat ***" and "***hole" on a school bus in the town of Greece in New York state, in the US.
The middle school (early secondary) students also harass Mrs Karen Klein, the bus monitor, about her weight, her hearing aid and her hairdo.
In the 10-minute clip, one even leans in and says he will urinate on her front door, while others make rude gestures, laugh and even poke her, AFP reported.
The video shows her trying her best to ignore the stream of profanity, insults and outright threats. One student taunted: "You don't have a family because they all killed themselves because they don't want to be near you."
Her oldest son killed himself 10 years ago.
Eventually, she appears to break down in tears.
The video, captured by a student on the bus, quickly became an Internet sensation with more than one million views.
Donations have been pouring in for Mrs Klein from all over the world and her tormentors have been targets of threats and abuse.
Small donations poured into the crowd-funding site indiegogo.com, at one point crashing the site and pulling in a staggering US$443,057 (S$565,000) by yesterday. Strangers donated the money to send her on a trip to recover from the ordeal.
At the same time, the police were stepping up patrols around the houses of the students who were accused of taunting her. The police did not name the boys, but their purported identities were leaked online.
Death threats
Greece Police Captain Steve Chatterton was compelled to warn against vigilante justice.
One boy received more than a thousand death threats and commenters online were clear - and sometimes venomous - in their desire that the boys be severely punished.
Police said Mrs Klein does not want the boys to face criminal charges, partly because of the storm of criticism levelled at them.
She told NBC's "Today" show that it took "a lot of will power" not to respond to the jeers from the four boys riding the bus operated by the Greece Central School District. She said she was "amazed" at the support she received.
She said: "I've got these nice letters, e-mails, Facebook messages. It's like, wow, there's a whole world out there that I didn't know (about). It's really awesome."
The boys had not yet apologised to Mrs Klein as of Thursday afternoon, though the police said they regretted their acts. The students involved will face disciplinary action.
