Getting only As and coming in top for every class - these were some of the rules that Amy Chua, a name now synonymous with the term "Tiger Mother", had set for her daughters.
But for self-proclaimed "American Tiger Dad" Robert Veres, 60, the main goal in raising his four daughters is to keep them alive until he is no longer legally obligated to support them.
That, and having them make it through high school without getting pregnant, dropping out of school or committing a crime that will go on their permanent record.
Advocates of strict Chinese-style parenting - as illustrated vividly in Amy Chua's Battle Hymn Of The Tiger Mother - may tut disapprovingly at the author's seemingly flippant approach towards raising his daughters. But Veres, an editor, writer, speaker and commentator who lives in Pacific Beach, California, maintains that parenting is "inherently a funny position to be in".
Although the dialogues in his latest parenting book, Conversations With My Daughter, never actually happened, Veres told my paper in an e-mail interview that he has his fair share of horror stories to tell.
"In their teen years, my daughters would bring home what appeared to be an escaped baboon and insist on dating it, and you would hear frightening stories about drug and alcohol use at their middle-school parties," said Veres.
"I'm proud to say that all of them made it, alive, to their 21st birthday. Mission accomplished." His daughters are now 22, 25, 33 and 36 years old.
Calling his book the "antidote to the Tiger Mum syndrome", Veres stressed that a typical American father does not have the disciplinary skills of the Tiger Mother or any inclination to develop them. But that does not mean that American fathers will allow their children to continuously not toe the line. "I don't have a problem with losing my temper once in a while," Veres confessed.
"I would never ever hit my children in anger, but it was always a sobering thing for them to realise that they had made me angry enough to shout at the top of my lungs," he added.
Although Veres does step in to enforce discipline on his children when he sees fit, it is still a far cry from Chua's heavy-handed methods, which include making her girls practise their instruments every day without fail - even when they are on holiday - and threatening to burn their stuffed toys should they protest.
Despite their differences, the Tiger Mother and the American Tiger Dad agree on one thing.
"We all want our kids to grow up happy, strong and self-reliant. But different cultures have very different ideas about the best way to do that," Chua said on her website.
Veres echoed Chua's sentiments, saying: "Everybody will do it differently, (and) have a different vision, and response to different scenes in front of them."
You can order a copy of Conversations With My Daughter at www.amazon.com and www.barnesandnoble.com
