She will never see her two sons again.
But Ms Tina Nash, who had her eyes gouged out by her ex-boyfriend in a horrifying attack, said she is determined to "get on with life" for her boys.
Ms Nash, 32, was sleeping in her home in Cornwall, England, when she was attacked by Shane Jenkin, 33, on April 20 last year.
Jenkin broke her jaw and nose during the 12-hour ordeal, and blinded her when she became unconscious, reported the Daily Mail.
The night before the unexplained attack, they had watched a horror film which featured a woman having her eyes gouged out.
Ms Nash did not scream or cry for help because she had learned from previous experience that if she did, he would become more violent.
She also knew she had to stay calm because her children, 13 and three, were in the house.
She begged Jenkin to get help for her but he refused and held her prisoner for 12 hours during which he blamed her for the attack, reported the Guardian.
Doctors tried to save the sight in one of Ms Nash's eyes, but their efforts were in vain and she was left completely blind.
Jenkin was reported to the police nine times for suspected domestic violence.
On one occasion, a prosecution was launched after he threatened to burn Ms Nash's home down. But he promised to reform and Ms Nash declined to give evidence against him.
Ms Nash told police she thought she could change Jenkin.
The monstrous attack had left her feeling "buried alive, claustrophobic and not in control of my life", she told the BBC.
But more than a year on, Ms Nash said she was feeling a lot more confident.
Since the attack, Ms Nash has moved to be near her sisters, where she lives with her sons, now aged four and 14, and their dog.
She is starting to feel her way around her house and is arranging her wardrobe so she knows which clothes are kept where.
Ms Nash told the Daily Mail that she didn't want people to feel sorry for her because she didn't feel sorry for herself.
She said: "I don't think I'm brave, I think I'm surviving... You only get one life, so I'm not going to let him ruin it."
She said her children did not treat her differently and she just wanted to make them proud.
Jenkin was jailed indefinitely for causing grievous bodily harm with intent on May 10. He will serve the sentence at a secure psychiatric hospital.
Following the hearing, Ms Nash said: "Shane knows what he did to me that night and he has to live with that for the rest of his life.
"My life changed forever that night and will never be the same, but I am now able to move on, start my treatment and rebuild my life.
"I have a future and want to provide a future for my kids and be a good mum."
Detective Inspector Chris Strickland, of Devon and Cornwall police, paid tribute to Ms Nash's courage in trying to rebuild her life.
He said: "Tina has displayed incredible strength... and has shown great desire to be able to care for her two children despite not being able to see them as they grow up."
