He pretended to be a woman getting a gynaecological exam.
And gave racy, explicit sex-education lessons to his students.
This high school teacher from Queens, New York, has since been barred from the classroom, reported the NY Daily News.
Grover Cleveland High School science instructor Dyrel Bartee, 53, has been canned by education officials after students complained about his raunchy demonstrations in class.
He had reclined on his desk and opened his legs during a lewd presentation on childbirth in May 2011, according to a report from the Special Commissioner of Investigation.
Hethen touched his crotch and said: "This is the doctors' favourite part because they get to put their fingers inside their women patients," the report said.
Mr Bartee then explained to his class that "men like being doctors because they like to touchwomen", according to the report.
Education officials said they first learned of Mr Bartee's bizarre routine after a group of students reported his actions online.
When investigators visited his school, students told them that Mr Bartee acted out several roles in his sex-ed lessons.
He played a woman giving birth and a doctor catching the baby as it exited thewoman's uterus, they said.
To illustrate the effects of sexually-transmitted diseases, students told investigators, Mr Bartee "held his hands in his groin area and made an 'oohing' sound".
Officials confined Mr Bartee to desk duty in November 2011, but he continued to draw his salary of US$80,987 (S$101,000) until he resigned in April.
He is no longer eligible for work in city schools.
He could not be reached for comment.
Mr Bartee began as a substitute biology andscience teacher in 1999, and began teaching at Grover Cleveland in 2005, reported CBS.
In April, he was barred from working in all city schools.
One of Mr Bartee's former students told the NY Daily News that the ousted instructor is not fit to teach.
"He was both boring and weird," said junior Laura Moron, 17, who witnessed the odd instruction last spring.
Another student, Leslie Sanchez, told CBS that she never felt comfortable around him.
"I've seen it for myself, he was a creep.
"The way he looked at girls wasn't appropriate, and me, I really didn't feel comfortable.
But I didn't really say anything," she said.
