MIAMI - The nude assailant who almost killed another man over the weekend by biting his face off was identified Tuesday by Miami police, who said they are still in the dark about what provoked the bizarre and savage attack.
The aggressor, Rudy Eugene, 31, was shot dead by police who said he had devoured almost the entire face of his victim.
The unidentified homeless man, who also was naked during the attack, remains hospitalized and fighting for his life.
"We are expecting a report from our detectives to give more details to the media. We are also looking for more witnesses to this crime," a Miami police spokesman said.
"The victim remains in critical condition."
The bloody spectacle unfolded mid-afternoon on Saturday, when police were alerted by the public as the attack was being carried out near Miami's MacArthur Causeway.
Police ordered Eugene to stop the assault, then fatally shot him when he continued to gnaw at the face of his victim.
Television footage and news photos have shown the two men sprawled on the sidewalk side by side, with the victim barely conscious and covered in blood with up to 75 per cent of his face ripped off.
Police initially said the attack could have been provoke by an overdose of a powerful new form of LSD mixed along with "cocaine psychosis."
Reports however Tuesday suggested Eugene was likely under the influence of the synthetic stimulant "bath salts" made with the active agent mephedrone, which produces an often aggressive, chaotic experience for users, coupled with intense hallucinations.
Authorities hope that the victim, if he survives, could help explain what precipitated the grisly attack.
"We're hoping that he pulls through, for his well-being, but also so he can tell us what happened," said Sergeant Javier Ortiz, vice president of the Miami police union.
"Only he knows."
The bizarre attack near the city's MacArthur Causeway on Saturday attracted the attention of passing drivers and several onlookers who alerted police and made attempts to halt the macabre spectacle, reports said.
"I told him to get off and the guy just kept eating the other guy," witness Larry Vega told the WSVN-Fox 7 station, describing it as something out of a horror movie with "blood all over the place."
Police then approached the attacker and told him to stop eating the man's face but he continued to bite into the victim, reportedly a homeless man.
"The guy just stood, his head up... with pieces of flesh in his mouth and growled," Vega said, and would not stop eating the victim's face.
A police officer fired shots that hit the man, but the attacker kept chewing on the victim's flesh -- more shots were fired, eventually killing him, the Miami Herald said.
Television footage showed the two men sprawled on the sidewalk side by side, with the victim barely conscious and covered in blood with up to 75 percent of his face ripped off.
Police said an overdose of a powerful new form of LSD could have prompted the attack.
"Whenever we see that a person has taken all of his clothes off and has become violent, it's indicative of this excited delirium that's caused by an overdose of drugs," Armando Aguilar of the Miami Fraternal Order of Police, told WSVN-Fox 7.
"What's happening is inside their body their organs are burning up alive."
