In a bizarre coincidence, t he past two weeks saw many gruesome murders and cases around the world. One could be forgiven for thinking they were reading synopses of upcoming zombie and horror flicks.
Some are completely bizarre, such as the one where a Japanese artist cooked and served his own genitals at a private, paid function.
Others seemed like scenes from horror movies. There was a professor who allegedly cut off his wife's lips in a fit of jealousy and ate them, because he believed she was having an affair. Then there was the nude assailant who devoured almost the entire face of his victim.
Close to home, while not as grisly, a maid was sentenced to a month's jail on May 28 for adding menstrual discharge to her then-employer's coffee last year.
We've compiled a list of the gruesome stories - ten horrifying incidents that really happened.
SYDNEY - A woman Friday pleaded guilty to killing her former lover in Sydney by spiking his food with sleeping pills then stabbing him in the groin and attempting to cut off his penis.
Jian Chen, 47, was originally charged with murder but the NSW Supreme Court accepted her guilty plea to the less serious offence of manslaughter.
According to a statement of facts before the court, reported by Australian media, police said the man, Xian Peng, 48, returned to Australia from China in February 2011 with his new girlfriend.
Police said that days later, Jian used pills to spike the soup she gave him at her home and when he was asleep, tied his hands and feet and stabbed him a number of times in the neck and groin, before hacking at his penis.
"An attempt to castrate him had taken place," said the statement of facts.
"The victim also had lacerations to the left side of his groin and his penis had been scalped."
She was remanded in custody until sentencing in August.
WASHINGTON - A US college student has told police he killed his roommate, cut up the body and ate part of the victim's brain and his whole heart, US media reports said Thursday.
Alexander Kinyua (left) of Baltimore, Maryland, was arrested on Tuesday after police searched his house following the discovery by his brother of the victim's head and hands, the Baltimore Sun reported.
Kinyua, a 21-year-old student at Morgan State University, confessed on Thursday to murdering and dismembering his roommate, Kujoe Bonsafo Agyei-Kodie, and then eating parts of his brain followed by his entire heart, the Sun said.
The motive was unclear, but Kinyua was charged with first-degree murder on Wednesday.
The grisly murder caps an especially gruesome week of crimes in North America.
Interpol has launched a manhunt for a Canadian porn star suspected of dismembering his boyfriend and making a video of the murder, while a young man in Miami was shot dead on Saturday as he gnawed off the face of a homeless man.
The crime she committed was nauseating.
Jumiah, a 24-year-old Indonesian maid who goes by just the one name, tainted her then-employer's coffee with her menstrual discharge because she believed that he would be nice to her after consuming the drink.
The 37-year old man cannot be named due to a court order.
The court, on Tuesday, heard that Jumiah stored her menstrual discharge in a plastic bottle on Aug 26 last year.
Five days later, at around 6.30am, she poured some of the fluid into the man's coffee.
Assistant Public Prosecutor (APP) Lim Yu Hui said the maid's unsuspecting victim then downed the drink before leaving his home.
Jumiah, who pleaded guilty on Tuesday to one count of mischief, was jailed for a month.
The petite maid had been working for the man since July 16 last year.
She lived in a flat with him, his wife, their three children, and his mother.
The court heard that according to Jumiah, the man's mother was very demanding. APP Lim told District Judge John Ng that she had to re-do her chores if the man's mother found her performance unsatisfactory.
APP Lim added that Jumiah had told the couple that she wanted to work elsewhere, but they turned down her request.
The maid later remembered that one of her friends had told her that the man's mother would become nicer to her if she consumed her menstrual discharge.
But Jumiah decided to feed the tainted drink to the man instead.
The maid thought after downing the disgusting mixture, the man would either agree to send her back to her agency or defend her when she got scolded.
But the crime came to light just minutes after the man downed the drink and left the house on Aug 31 last year.
At around 7am, his mother spotted the plastic bottle containing Jumiah's menstrual discharge, which the latter had accidentally left near a microwave oven.
The older woman confronted the maid, who lied, claiming that the brownish liquid inside was tea. Jumiah then took the bottle and threw the contents away.
Though she tried to get rid of the bottle too, the man's mother got hold of it.
The man came home at around 6.30pm the next day and his mother showed it to him. Jumiah again insisted that it had contained tea.
The court heard that the truth emerged after the man told her that he would send the bottle for laboratory testing.
Jumiah then admitted that she had added some of her menstrual discharge to his coffee the day before.
She also told him why she did so.
The man lodged a police report on Sept 2 last year and Jumiah was arrested.
In mitigation, Jumiah, who was not represented, told the court that she is remorseful and that her only intention was to return to Indonesia as soon as possible.
She pleaded for a light sentence and apologised to everyone involved in the case for her "foolish act".
For committing the act of mischief, Jumiah could have been jailed up to a year and fined.
OTTAWA - Police launched a hunt Wednesday for a male porn star after a human hand was found in the mail at an Ottawa post office, and a decomposing foot was sent to Canada's ruling Conservative Party.
A nationwide warrant has been issued for Luka Rocco Magnotta (left), 29, also known as Eric Clinton Newman and Vladimir Romanov.
Montreal police spokesman Ian Lafreniere told a press conference the suspect has no criminal record and asked the public's help in tracking him down.
Police in Ottawa had previously disclosed that both packages were sent to Ottawa from Montreal.
The gruesome discoveries, described by Canadian Public Safety Minister Vic Toews as "very disturbing," were made hours after a severed torso was also discovered by a janitor in Montreal early Tuesday in a suitcase in a pile of garbage.
Lafreniere said the finds are thought to be linked after an investigation brought them to a Montreal apartment that is believed to be scene of the dismembering.
The torso, he said, belonged to a white male and it is believed that the victim and the suspect knew each other.
The body parts will undergo forensic testing to determine if they came from the same person and if the person was alive when the parts were severed.
"We're missing parts of the body so it's difficult at this time to positively identify the victim," Lafreniere added.
The first package was partly opened by the receptionist at the Conservative office in Ottawa who called the police after seeing blood stains and was overwhelmed by the smell.
"The Hazmat Unit and Emergency Operations Section were called and upon further inspection of the package it was determined that there was possibly a human foot in the box," Ottawa police said in a statement on Tuesday.
The box was then X-rayed and handed over to the local coroner who "determined that the package did contain a human foot," it added.
Hours later, a second suspicious package was intercepted by Canada Post at a nearby mail sorting facility.
It "contained a human hand," said police. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, citing sources, said the second parcel was addressed to the Liberal Party headquarters in Ottawa.
The public broadcaster also said Magnotta posted videos online of himself torturing kittens, and once dated serial killer Karla Homolka who was convicted in 1991 of manslaughter following a plea bargain in the rape-murders of two teenage girls and her sister.
Homolka had claimed in testimony that helped send her husband Paul Bernardo to prison for life that she was abused and an unwilling accomplice to the murders.
But videotapes of the crimes later surfaced showing that she was a more active participant than she had claimed.
She was released from prison in 2005 and moved to Montreal.
Several websites describe Magnotta as a washed-up porn star and hooker, and say that he has denied ties to Homolka.
Immigration Minister Jason Kenney told reporters Wednesday that this was clearly a "completely disgusting criminal act," adding it was also "bizarre and completely horrifying."
OTTAWA - A global manhunt was under way Friday for a Canadian porn star suspected of dismembering his boyfriend and mailing the body parts, after a video of the grisly killing surfaced online.
Interpol posted the picture and profile of Luka Rocco Magnotta, 29, who is being hunted across Canada over the killing, first brought to light when a human foot was sent to the headquarters of Canada's ruling Conservative Party.
A hand was later found in the mail at an Ottawa post office, and a torso was discovered in Montreal. Police believe the remains belong to a man who was dating Magnotta - and that Magnotta is to blame.
Authorities say they believe the suspect, also known as Eric Clinton Newman and Vladimir Romanov, may have fled the country.
Interpol said it had issued a "Red Notice" wanted persons alert for Magnotta to its 190 member countries.
"There is no country in the world that is not talking about him," Montreal police commander Ian Lafreniere told public broadcaster CBC Thursday, adding that police have evidence he fled North America.
"There's a lot of heat on him. There's a lot of pressure on him, so we believe that it's going to be hard for him."
The video circulating online shows a man repeatedly stab another man with an ice pick and dismember him, as a song from the soundtrack of the film "American Psycho" plays in the background.
"It's a video of the murder," police told the daily Globe and Mail. The newspaper also reported that the footage showed acts of cannibalism.
Despite efforts to take it down, frustrated police said Thursday the gory 10 and a half minute video first brought to the attention of Canadian authorities by a Montana lawyer has kept popping up all over the Internet.
US civil litigation lawyer Roger Renville told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) he came across the video last Saturday, and informed police in the United States and Canada.
"What I saw in that video exceeds your worst nightmare. It's Jeffrey Dahmer-esque," he said.
When Renville spoke to Canadian police on Sunday, he said they were "very skeptical."
A police officer "suggested that whatever I was seeing must be fake. And he suggested that special effects are pretty good these days and it'd be hard to tell if it was real or not," said Renville.
An investigation was launched Tuesday when a package sent from Montreal was partly opened by the receptionist at the Conservative Party office in Ottawa, who called police after seeing blood stains and being overwhelmed by the smell.
Hours later, a second suspicious package was intercepted by Canada Post at a nearby mail sorting facility. It "contained a human hand," said police.
The probe soon shifted to Montreal, where a torso was discovered by a janitor in a suitcase in a pile of garbage. Police said the torso belonged to a white male but was difficult to identify because of the missing body parts.
The investigation quickly brought police to a studio apartment overlooking an expressway in the neighborhood where the torso was found.
After combing it for evidence, the doors and windows were left open to air out the "pungent" smell of death, the Ottawa Citizen reported.
A CBC reporter, who was let in by the building superintendent, said he saw blood stains on a bed mattress where police say the victim may have been killed, around a bathtub drain, and on other furniture.
Only two months ago, Magnotta wrote in his last known public comments on a blog: "It's not cool to the world being a necrophiliac. It's bloody lonely."
Police have not said whether there was evidence of sexual assault on the victim.
Several websites describe Magnotta as a washed-up porn star and hustler, who allegedly posted videos online of himself torturing kittens.
Online reports also said Magnotta once dated Karla Homolka, who was convicted in 1991 of manslaughter following a plea bargain in the rape and murder of two teenage girls and her sister.
Homolka had claimed in testimony that helped send her husband Paul Bernardo to prison for life that she was abused and an unwilling accomplice to the grisly murders.
But videotapes of the crimes later surfaced showing that she was a more active participant than she had claimed. She was released from prison in 2005 and moved to Montreal.
In a 2007 interview with a Toronto newspaper, Magnotta denied knowing Homolka, who is reportedly now married with three children.
STOCKHOLM - A professor who believed his young wife to be having an affair allegedly cut off her lips in a fit of jealousy and ate them, a report said on Thursday.
"He cut off her lips and ate them," Swedish daily Aftonbladet quoted an unnamed source close to the case as saying.
"He doesn't seem to regret anything. He thinks she is the one who has offended him," the source added.
The man, an associate professor at Sweden's prestigious Karolinska Institute whose name was not given, was reportedly being held on suspicion of attempted murder, according to the report.
"She is of course not doing well, neither psychologically nor physically," the woman's lawyer Ingela Ekman Hessius told Aftonbladet.
The lawyer, who was in court Thursday and could not be reached by AFP for comment, told the paper her client had suffered "very serious injuries. The doctors have not yet said whether they can fix this or not."
The attacker, who has now been ordered to undergo a psychiatric evaluation, reportedly had several children from a first marriage, which had ended only weeks before he married his current wife, a much younger woman.
According to Aftonbladet, he had recently begun to suspect that she was having an affair and had allegedly decided to punish her by disfiguring her.
"He didn't want the lips to be able to be sewn back on," the unnamed source said, explaining why he had eaten them.
MIAMI - The nude assailant who almost killed another man over the weekend by biting his face off was identified Tuesday by Miami police, who said they are still in the dark about what provoked the bizarre and savage attack.
The aggressor, Rudy Eugene, 31, was shot dead by police who said he had devoured almost the entire face of his victim.
The unidentified homeless man, who also was naked during the attack, remains hospitalized and fighting for his life.
"We are expecting a report from our detectives to give more details to the media. We are also looking for more witnesses to this crime," a Miami police spokesman said.
"The victim remains in critical condition."
The bloody spectacle unfolded mid-afternoon on Saturday, when police were alerted by the public as the attack was being carried out near Miami's MacArthur Causeway.
Police ordered Eugene to stop the assault, then fatally shot him when he continued to gnaw at the face of his victim.
Television footage and news photos have shown the two men sprawled on the sidewalk side by side, with the victim barely conscious and covered in blood with up to 75 per cent of his face ripped off.
TOKYO - An 80-year-old man was being questioned in Japan on Wednesday on suspicion of strangling his wife and keeping her body in the freezer for up to 10 years, police and media reports said.
Masaichi Yamada, who runs a fish-processing company, was arrested in the northern Japan port of Kushiro early Tuesday when the frozen corpse - still fully clothed - was uncovered.
"The suspect maliciously strangled the victim with a string-like object at their home and abandoned her body in the freezer at his working place," a spokesman for police in Hokkaido told AFP by telephone.
It was not immediately known when the murder took place, the official said, adding the woman would have been 71 years old if she was alive today.
Yamada reportedly confessed to the police he killed his wife during an argument at their home "sometime between 2002 and 2006" and carried the body by car to the factory.
Police searched the factory after the dead woman's brother said he had not been able to contact his sister for several years.
TOKYO - A Japanese artist cooked his own genitals and served them to five paying diners in Tokyo to cover the medical costs, in a bizarre act to raise awareness about sexual minorities.
Mao Sugiyama had his penis and testicles surgically removed in March and kept them frozen for two months before dishing them out - seasoned and braised - to customers at an event hall on May 13, according to postings on his Twitter account and local police.
Diners paid 20,000 yen (S$320) for the plate with a portion of genitals. Pictures published on a website appeared to show the meal came complete with mushrooms and a parsley garnish.
The painter, who is reportedly 22, said on Twitter the organ had been removed by a physician and certified to be free of infections.
The meal was prepared under the supervision of a certified cook and diners were required to sign a waiver indemnifying Sugiyama and event organisers.
In May 18 tweets, the artist said steps were taken so the act met all relevant laws, including a ban on organ sales, processing of medical waste and even food sanitation requirements.
"I receive questions from some women and men... asking 'Will there be a next time? Please host it again.' But there is only one set of male organ," he tweeted on May 16.
"Unfortunately, I have no plan for the next time."
Sugiyama, who considers himself "asexual", that is without gender, initially thought about eating the genitals himself, but decided to solicit paying customers to help pay his hospital bills for the surgery.
In an email to AFP, he confirmed the event had taken place and said it was organised to raise awareness about "sexual minorities, x-gender, asexual people". He said he was readying to publish an official account of the day.
Police in Tokyo said they knew of the episode, but added that it had not broken the law as cannibalism was not illegal in Japan.
"We are aware of the case. There was nothing (criminal) to it. It does not violate any detailed rules. There is nothing to take action about," an officer at Suginami police station told AFP.
BEIJING - Police in southwest China have detained a man suspected of murdering more than a dozen boys and young men, chopping up their bodies and selling the flesh to unsuspecting consumers, reports said Friday.
Zhang Yongming, 56, was detained two weeks ago in Nanmen village in Yunnan province and is being investigated over the murder of a 19-year-old man in late April, the Guangxi News website reported.
Police searching Zhang's home found the young man's cellphone, bank card and other evidence, according to the website, which said more than a dozen other teenagers had gone missing from the village over the years.
It said Zhang had previously served almost 20 years in jail for murder.
Zhang was known in the village as the "cannibal monster," the site reported, quoting residents as saying they had seen green plastic bags hanging from his home, with what appeared to be white bones protruding from the top.
Local police declined comment when contacted by AFP Friday, saying information would be made available "at an appropriate time", and other reports on the gruesome case appeared to have been removed from Chinese websites.
But Hong Kong newspaper The Standard said Friday that police entering Zhang's home discovered human eyeballs preserved inside wine bottles and pieces of what appeared to be human flesh hanging in the house to dry.
Police feared that Zhang had fed human flesh to his three dogs, while selling other parts on the market, calling it "ostrich meat", according to The Standard.
Beijing has dispatched a team of experts to Yunnan to supervise the investigation into the missing teenagers and two local police chiefs have been dismissed from their positions, the official Xinhua news agency said.
Families of the missing suspected that they had been kidnapped and forced to work in illegal brick kilns, Xinhua said, adding that the government had urged a swift resolution to the case.
BEIJING - A man has been arrested on suspicion of killing 11 men in China, the official Xinhua news agency confirmed on Sunday, breaking its silence over the capture of a loner dubbed the "cannibal monster".
News reports from China and Hong Kong on Friday alleged the 56-year-old, a convicted murderer who was released from prison in 1997, had chopped up the bodies of the dead and sold the flesh to unsuspecting consumers.
Zhang Yongming was detained more than two weeks ago in his village in southwest China, where he was known as the "cannibal monster", the Guangxi News website reported last week.
It quoted residents as saying they had seen green plastic bags hanging from his home, with what appeared to be white bones protruding from the top.
The influential Xinhua made no mention of cannibalism in its "exclusive" story on Sunday of the arrest of the man it called "the alleged serial killer" and made few of the graphic revelations contained in the earlier reports.
A previous Xinhua report said only that Beijing had dispatched a team of experts to Yunnan province, where the accused lives, to supervise an investigation into missing teenagers.
Almost all last week's reports on the grisly case - which made headlines around the world - were later removed from Chinese websites and online searches for the words "missing in Yunnan" were also blocked.
Chinese media normally face few restrictions on reporting about non-political crimes, and it was not immediately clear why details of the Yunnan case had been originally censored.
Cannibalism is a particularly sensitive subject in China, where it was practised as a survival tactic during periods of mass starvation, for example in the wake of a failed industrialisation drive launched in the late 1950s.
"A large amount of physical evidence and DNA comparisons show that Zhang Yongming from Nanmen village, Jinning county, killed the 11 males," Sunday's report said, citing the ministry of public security.
"After the murders, Zhang used various means, including dismemberment, burning and burial, to destroy the evidence."
Zhang is said to have attacked his victims while they were walking alone near his home.
Hong Kong newspaper The Standard had said police discovered human eyeballs preserved inside wine bottles - "like snake wine" - and pieces of what appeared to be human flesh hanging up to dry when they entered Zhang's home.
Police feared that Zhang had fed human flesh to his three dogs, while selling other parts on the market, calling it "ostrich meat", according to The Standard.
Xinhua's Sunday report quoted the public security ministry as saying that it would work with local authorities to punish any police officers found to be guilty of dereliction of duty.
Internet users have expressed dismay that officials had not tackled the case sooner.
MEXICO CITY - A mother in Mexico has been arrested on suspicion of gouging out the eyes of her 5-year-old son during a ceremony.
Police said on Thursday they had arrested seven people, including the boy's parents, after his eyeballs were pulled out during the ritual in Nezahualcoyotl, a working-class neighborhood on the eastern flank of Mexico City.
"There was some kind of ceremony inside a house," said Laura Uribe, a spokeswoman for state prosecutors in the State of Mexico, a populous region that borders much of the capital.
She did not give details of what the ritual involved.
The mother is believed to have removed the eyes with her bare hands because the boy refused to close them during the ceremony, police told a news conference.
Officers found the mutilated boy in the house on Thursday morning, before rushing him to a hospital in Mexico City for treatment.
