After a heated debate over whether she is eligible to compete in the Miss Universe Canada pageant, Miss Jenna Talackova took to the stage on Thursday night.
The 23-year-old is Canada's first transgender contestant to compete in the pageant. She is among 62 women competing for the coveted crown.
Miss Talackova, who was born a man but underwent sex-change surgery four years ago, took part in the swimwear and evening gown rounds in front of 15 judges, Daily Mail reported.
The 1.86m-tall Vancouver native said she has her family's full support and 14 relatives flew to Toronto to see her compete.
She told the Globe and Mail that the competition was "a great battle" and that she was "in it to win".
She said: "It's a competition, I've to perform to my 100 per cent best because all of us ladies are rehearsing and training so hard."
At the same time, she admitted there were larger issues at stake for her, describing her journey to the crown as a fight for equality.
She said: "I've set a precedent for a lot of women in my situation. So once I step on that stage, every woman in every other country that doesn't have the option that I have now can fight for it.
'Blessed'
"I feel so blessed with this opportunity."
But the presence of Miss Talackova in the competition has unfairly taken the spotlight away from others, complained friends and relatives of some contestants.
They said her story has overshadowed worthy challengers, Canadian Press reported.
"It's a little bit one-sided and there's a lot of focus on maybe Jenna and maybe the issues surrounding it," said Mr Donavon Powell, who is cheering for his 24-year-old girlfriend Vaughan Marr.
"I think it's good that there's attention brought to it, but I think it might be outweighing and overshadowing the rest of the competition in general," he added.
One of the judges, Mr Justin Ryan, said the judges will not be pushed into making her the winner "just because we want to be involved in history in the making".
Miss Talackova, who went for a sex-change surgery at 19, had already reached the finals of the Miss Vancouver pageant before officials stepped in and banned her from the competition for being born male. It was claimed that she lied on her application about her natural-born gender.
The only requirements stated on the Miss Universe Canada website are that to enter, women must be a Canadian citizen and between 18 and 27.
The application form makes no mention of rules regarding sex-change surgery.
Her case was taken on by celebrity lawyer Gloria Allred before pageant owner Donald Trump ruled in her favour.
Miss Talackova, who hopes to become a model for Sports Illustrated and Victoria's Secret in the future, said she wants others to know that anything is possible.
She said: "We were born crying - does that mean we're going to be a crybaby all of our lives? No.
"You develop your inner self, your inner soul and to embrace your individuality is what I want to give to this world. I want to get this message out about embracing who you are and what you're doing."
