TOLUCA, Mexico - Enrique Pena Nieto, the man polls say will be elected Mexico's next president, wrapped up his national campaign Wednesday with a colorful rally in the city that saw his political rise.
Thousands of supporters dressed in red and white, the campaign colors, waved banners and chanted slogans in Toluca as their candidate vowed victory in Sunday's vote.
"We want a country at peace for all Mexicans, with safety and security," Pena Nieto told a crowd packed into Toluca's main square chanting "Enrique, Enrique!"
He called for a "new direction" for the country, "so that each Mexican family can obtain a higher income," and promised more money for Mexican farmers, as well as lower utility rates and an overhaul of the social security system.
"My priority will be to battle the poverty in our country at its roots," he told the crowd.
But he did not mention the violence plaguing the country, which has left more than 50,000 dead since outgoing President Felipe Calderon deployed the military to crack down on drug cartels in late 2006.
Pena Nieto is running well ahead in Wednesday's latest polls - the final ones before the Sunday vote - which predict he will win by a 10-17 point margin over Andres Lopez Obrador from the leftist Party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD).
Josefina Vazquez Mota, bidding to be the Latin American nation's first woman president, and who represents Calderon's ruling conservative National Action Party (PAN), is running third with about 24 per cent support.
By law, Calderon cannot run for re-election.
Pena Nieto has presented himself as the fresh new face of the PRI, which governed Mexico for most of the 20th century and has been tainted by charges of corruption and cronyism.
The handsome, telegenic 45-year-old has run a model campaign, attracting a loyal fan base, appearing in photos with other youthful candidates - often women - and rubbing shoulders with local celebrities.
He is married to telenovela star Angelica Rivera, his second wife, star of Televisa's hit soap "Distilling Love." She is often referred to as "Gaviota" (Seagull), the name of the humble woman she portrayed on the show.
One enthusiastic supporter, Margarita Hernandez, 47, and her group of female PRI loyalists made their feelings plain.
"Enrique, bonbon (sweet treat), I want you on my mattress!" she cried out, smiling.
As soon as he finished speaking, a muscular fellow in a tight v-neck t-shirt jumped on stage to hug him.
"Oooh, that's Alejandro Fernandez!" cried out a middle-aged woman, referring to a well-known Mexican ranchera and pop singer.
Pena Nieto was returning home to Toluca, the capital of Mexico State, for his final campaign stop, paying tribute to the city where he cut his teeth as a politician, eventually rising to become state governor in 2005.
He also married his second wife in Toluca cathedral, on the town square, the Martyr's Plaza, named after independence war heroes executed there in 1811.
On Wednesday, the cathedral's giant bronze bells rang out every 15 minutes, loud enough to be heard above the music and speeches blasting from giant campaign speakers.
"For me, he is the candidate of unity, comradeship and victory," said PRI loyalist Erick Aguila, 27.
Toluca, with a population of 800,000 and sitting some 2,600 meters (8,500 feet) above sea level west of Mexico City, was a backwater until the 1960s, when an industrial corridor opened and auto and textile factories moved in.
In Mexico City, meanwhile, Lopez Obrador ended his campaign by marching with supporters down the Paseo de la Reforma - the city's main thoroughfare - to the Zocalo, the city's vast central square, for a rally.
The leftist candidate is a former city mayor and, six years after losing the presidency to Calderon by less than one per cent, still has strong support in the Mexican capital.
The march disrupted traffic in this city of eight million so much that the candidate had to hop on the subway to reach the rally point.
"We are going to win the presidency again," Lopez Obrador, who insists there was fraud in the 2006 vote, told the Zocalo crowd.
"The attempt to impose Pena through marketing and publicity has not worked.
They thought that ... all they needed was a soap opera."
City officials said more than 450,000 people gathered to hear Lopez Obrador. Vazquez Mota wrapped up her campaign late Wednesday in the western city of Guadalajara.
Hours earlier in the northern city of Monterrey, she urged voters not to cast their ballots for "soap opera faces" but rather for an "authentic head of state."
