LONDON - Britain's police watchdog strongly criticised former senior members of Scotland Yard on Thursday for their close ties with an ex-journalist from the scandal-hit News of the World tabloid.
The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) said members of the London force took &ldquo;imprudent decisions&rdquo; and showed &ldquo;poor judgment&rdquo; in hiring Neil Wallis as a media advisor and in giving a job to his daughter.
Wallis, a former executive editor of the News of the World, was arrested by detectives investigating phone hacking in July 2011, the same month Rupert Murdoch shut down the Sunday newspaper over the scandal.
The arrest sparked the resignations of police commissioner Paul Stephenson and counter-terrorism chief John Yates, who had both been linked to Wallis.
The IPCC report comes amid intense scrutiny of Scotland Yard's links to the News of the World and other newspapers by the Leveson inquiry, which was set up last year to look at press practices following the hacking row.
&ldquo;Despite the growing phone hacking scandal, which must have exercised the MPS (police) at a senior level and which was beginning to damage the reputation of the Metropolitan Police in late 2009, senior people appear to have been oblivious to the perception of conflict,&rdquo; said IPCC deputy chair Deborah Glass.
&ldquo;It is clear to me that professional boundaries became blurred, imprudent decisions taken and poor judgement shown by senior police personnel.&rdquo;
Scotland Yard's director of public affairs, Dick Fedorcio, hired Wallis as a media consultant in October 2009, a decision approved by Yates, who was then assistant commissioner.
Wallis was hired despite increasing reports in the media that journalists at the News of the World, the newspaper he had left only weeks earlier, had been routinely hacking the voicemails of public figures.
A News of the World journalist and a private detective were jailed for hacking in 2007 but police accepted the newspaper's insistence that it was a one-off incident, a decision confirmed by Yates in a 2009 review.
Scotland Yard reopened their investigation in January last year, and went on to arrest dozens of people.
The IPCC said Fedorcio should face allegations of misconduct, but noted his resignation last month following moves to begin action against him.
The watchdog also criticised Yates for forwarding a copy of Wallis's daughter's CV to Scotland Yard's human resources department, which led to her being given a job, but found no evidence of corruption.
In a statement, the police force acknowledged it had been &ldquo;the subject of much external scrutiny in recent months and the review recommended by the IPCC will form part of our wider response&rdquo;.
