ATHENS - Greek lawmakers prepared to wrap up their legislative activity Tuesday ahead of snap elections expected next month as a poll predicted an uncertain outcome due to anger over austerity measures.
The 300-seat chamber was scheduled to approve by the evening a labour bill restructuring social security funds, the last piece of legislation that the caretaker government of Lucas Papademos had pledged to pass before the ballot.
"This parliamentary period draws to a close," parliament speaker Philippos Petsalnikos told the chamber.
"In a few hours we will complete our legislative tasks."
Papademos is expected to submit his mandate this week to the head of state, President Carolos Papoulias, who will then issue a decree dissolving parliament and calling for elections within 30 days.
Papoulias will see Papademos at 1400 GMT on Wednesday, the president's office said in a statement.
According to ministers and other officials, May 6 is the most likely date.
"All the conditions are present for elections on May 6," Antonis Samaras, head of the conservative New Democracy party that leads opinion polls, told private Mega television in an interview on Monday.
Mega released a poll giving New Democracy a four-point lead over the socialist Pasok party, which is narrowing the gap under its new leader, former finance minister Evangelos Venizelos.
The survey by pollsters GPO suggests that with a mere 18.2 per cent of the vote, New Democracy may be unable to form a majority government.
Amid mounting anger over two years of painful austerity, nearly one in five respondents did not give a party preference and over three per cent said they would support a neo-Nazi party, giving them enough votes to enter parliament.
Papademos took over in November as head of a coalition backed by New Democracy and Pasok to complete a debt-saving bond swap with private creditors and ratify a eurozone bailout worth 130 billion euros (S$214.17 billion).
But Samaras insisted on Monday he would not form a government with Pasok if his party failed to garner enough votes, even if this meant that repeat elections are necessary.
According to the interior ministry, each legislative election costs around 60 million euros.
"If a government cannot be formed...we will have to hold fresh elections, even if the country remains without a government (until then)," the conservative leader said.
Greece in June will attempt to economise another 11.5 billion euros by 2014 to meet conditions under a previous EU-IMF debt rescue.
Most of the 1,200 people questioned in Monday's poll said they wanted a coalition government and 56 per cent took a dim view of Papademos' legacy.
