MILAN - The earthquake that shook northeast Italy before dawn on Sunday took a heavy toll on the industrial region's night-shift workers, with four of the disaster's six victims killed at factories.
When the quake struck at 4.04am, Leonardo Ansaloni, Nicola Cavicchi, Gerardo Cesaro and Tarik Naouch were not asleep like most Italians but working at factories that - like many around the town of Finale Emilia, the quake's epicentre - operate 24 hours a day.
The 6.0-magnitude quake made a tremendous noise, but workers at Tecopress in the small town of Dosso, where Cesaro was killed, said they did not even notice it over the roar of the smelting works.
"We didn't hear it, the noise was too loud," said Ghulam Murtaza who worked with Cesaro, who was loading aluminium sheets when the quake hit and did not have time to run out with his colleagues as the building collapsed.
Like much of Italy's north - the engine of the national economy - this part of the Emilia-Romagna region is dotted with family-owned factories.
The area is well-known for its tile industry, a sector that is performing well despite an economy in recession and the pinch of the global crisis, thanks to worldwide exports of Italian tiles and earthenware.
Ansaloni and Cavicchi worked for Ceramica Sant'Agostino, a family business renowned in the industry that employs 350 people.
The two were trapped inside when their building came down like a house of cards around them.
Cavicchi was not supposed to be at work that day but had agreed to fill in for a sick colleague after seeing the bad weather forecast and deciding against going to the beach, as he did nearly every weekend.
"Luckily this happened in the middle of the night between Saturday and Sunday. My heart is torn to pieces for the two workers, it's horrible. But if this had happened on Monday or Tuesday, 200 people would be down there," said the owner's son Filippo Manuzzi, quoted in the newspaper La Stampa.
But the collapse of these factories poses the question of whether local businesses have been following building codes in this seismically unstable region.
"It's not really acceptable in a modern society for things like industrial buildings to collapse after a tremor that, yes, had a certain magnitude but was not exceptional," said the president of the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology, Stefano Gresta.
Ceramica Sant'Agostino responded to such concerns saying its buildings had been constructed "according to maximum security criteria".
Naouch for his part worked for a company called Ursa that makes polystyrene in the town of Bondeno.
A 29-year-old Moroccan, he came to Italy in 1994 like many north African immigrants drawn to the country's industrial north, whose labour has helped fuel an almost steady economic boom over the past several decades.
He had worked for six years at Ursa and had just gotten papers for his young wife to join him in Italy.
He was replacing the shift boss the day the earthquake struck.
Colleagues said he went back inside the factory to close the gas line and was killed by a falling girder.
