HAMMAMET, Tunisia - China and Arab nations jointly urged Syria's warring parties to fully implement a tattered UN and Arab League ceasefire plan.
The plan for ending bloodshed in Syria includes a ceasefire that should have taken effect on April 12 but has been violated daily.
"China and the Arab countries call on the Syrian parties to fully apply" UN-Arab League envoy Kofi Annan's ceasefire plan, the countries said in a statement issued at the close of a Sino-Arab forum in the eastern Tunisian city of Hammamet.
"It is essential to avoid the danger of a foreign intervention and the scenario of anarchy and civil war in Syria," it added.
Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi said Beijing "unreservedly" supports Annan's mediation efforts and the UN observers monitoring the troubled ceasefire.
"The international community must redouble its efforts and exhort the Syrian authorities to strictly and immediately apply the Annan plan," he said.
The forum was also attended by the head of the Arab League and foreign ministers from more than a dozen Arab states.
Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki and several Arab leaders had earlier urged China to pressure Syria to end the slaughter of civilians there.
"Tunisia considers that China can play a decisive role to end the suffering of the Syrian people and prevent foreign military intervention," Marzouki said.
Arab League chief Nabil al-Arabi called for an "immediate halt to the crimes against civilians" in Syria, while Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Sabah Khaled Al-Sabah called on China to "put pressure on the Syrian government to stop the violence and the massacres and respect its commitments regarding the Annan plan."
Before the close of the forum, Yang had said: "The Middle East is currently going through profound changes and China respects and supports the right of Arab countries to handle their internal affairs in an independent way, as well as the Arab people's call for reform and development."
With Russian and Chinese support, the UN Security Council on Sunday strongly condemned the Syrian government for using artillery in a massacre in the central town of Houla in which at least 108 people were killed.
But on Wednesday, China said it opposed military intervention in the Syrian issue and regime change by force. Russia has also refused to support stronger action against President Bashar al-Assad's regime.
More than 13,000 people have been killed in Syria since an anti-regime uprising broke out in March last year, and Assad launched a fierce crackdown on dissent.
