CAIRO - Tensions soared in Egypt on Saturday as the nation awaited the results of a divisive presidential election and the Muslim Brotherhood sparred with the ruling military over what it sees as a power grab.
Hundreds of Brotherhood supporters spent the night in Tahrir Square, having vowed to stay until the results of the election - which pits their candidate Mohamed Morsi against ousted president Hosni Mubarak's last prime minister Ahmed Shafiq - are published.
"Morsi, Morsi, God is the Greatest," the protesters chanted, in anticipation of a victory for their candidate, who says he won according to tallies provided by electoral officials.
Both Morsi and Shafiq have claimed victory in the election for a successor to Mubarak, sparking tensions between the rival camps that have deepened after the electoral commission delayed its announcement of the official outcome.
The delay in the announcement of the June 16-17 run-off, initially scheduled for Thursday, has raised suspicions that the outcome of the election is being negotiated not counted.
As the ruling Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (SCAF) and the Brotherhood clashed publicly over recent measures that consolidated the army's power, privately they have been engaged in talks, sources told AFP.
On Friday, the SCAF warned it would deal "with utmost firmness and strength" with any attempts to harm public interests, while the Brotherhood warned against tampering with the election results but said it had no intention of instigating violence.
The Brotherhood rejects a constitutional declaration by the military which strips away any gains made by the Islamist group since the uprising which overthrew Mubarak in February last year.
The document dissolves the Islamist-led parliament and gives the army a broad say in government policy and control over the new constitution. It was adopted just days after a justice ministry decree granted the army powers of arrest.
Even if Mursi wins, the changes leave the Brotherhood with no parliament, no say in the constitution and a powerless president.
"It's a problem which we are trying to resolve," one Brotherhood official said.
The standoff comes amid a blizzard of conflicting reports over who will be declared winner or when the results will be announced.
"Morsi to be declared the winner today. Unless," read the headline of the independent daily Al-Shorouk.
"Shafiq is close to the presidential palace," said the liberal daily Al-Wafd on its front page.
The electoral commission on Thursday said the results would be announced "on Saturday or Sunday."
The race has polarised the nation, dividing those who fear a return to the old regime under Shafiq's leadership from others who want to keep religion out of politics and fear the Brotherhood would stifle personal freedoms.
Shafiq ran on a strong law-and-order platform, pledging to restore security and stability.
Morsi on the other hand sought to allay fears of secular groups and the country's sizeable Coptic Christian minority by promising a diverse and inclusive political system.
