HOLLIDAYSBURG, Pennsylvania - Rick Santorum barnstormed across Pennsylvania Wednesday, insisting after a triple loss to Mitt Romney that winning his home state primary will light a fire under his struggling White House campaign.
Frontrunner Romney swept the contests in Wisconsin, Maryland and the US capital Washington on Tuesday, tightening his grip on the lead in the Republican race to see who will challenge President Barack Obama in the November election.
But Santorum, a former US senator from Pennsylvania who lost his seat in an election debacle in 2006, called on supporters in this picturesque town to help him "start this campaign anew" with a win in his home state on April 24.
He said that could propel him to further victories in May and blunt Romney's efforts to be crowned the nominee.
"There's a long way to go" in the Republican primaries race, Santorum told a few hundred people gathered at the local courthouse.
"Getting the right candidate is more important than getting the first candidate."
Earlier in the day as Santorum kicked off what is expected to be three weeks of intense campaigning in the state, he admitted it was make-or-break for him in Pennsylvania.
"We have to win here," he told reporters outside Bob's Diner in Carnegie, in western Pennsylvnia.
"We've got a strong base of support here and we're going to work very very hard."
Romney has drawn much of the air out of the Republican nominations battle, directing his attacks not at party rivals like Santorum or House speaker Newt Gingrich but at Obama.
State Senator John Eichelberger introduced Santorum in Hollidaysburg by stressing the candidate's credentials on subjects from fiscal conservatism to social issues, but he also called on Santorum to take it more directly to the president.
"It's a new beginning for Rick Santorum in Pennsylvania," Eichelberger said. "It's time for Rick to get tough, and Rick is going to get real tough," he said, as he presented Santorum with a pair of black boxing gloves before cheering supporters.
Santorum has needed no prompting to attack the president's policies.
"We need to draw a clear contrast," he said, "whether we want a bottom up system of building a great and strong economy, based on free people and free enterprise, or whether we're somebody who buys into Obama's top-down government control."
