The Colombian escort involved in the US Secret Service scandal has spoken out for the first time.
Ms Dania Suarez, 24, told a Colombian radio station that one of the agents,Mr Arthur Huntington,who picked her up from a night club in Cartagena, was "heavily intoxicated".
Mr Huntington has since left the Secret Service. He was among the many agents who were embroiled in the sex scandal.
The agents were in Cartagena in Columbia to prepare for US President Barack Obama's visit last month.
Ms Suarez denies being a prostitute, but she said she requested "a little present" of US$800 (S$995).
She said that luggage and documents in a suitcase in his hotel room were left out in the open,and could easily have been taken if she were a spy, according to ABC News.
Ms Suarez also said she would not have complained about not being paid had she known the agent was part of Mr Obama's security detail.
She said she fled the country after the scandal broke for fear of retribution, and spent time in Dubai with a person she had met in Cartagena, the Daily Mail reported.
When asked whether she and Mr Huntington had sex, she responded: "If I answer this, you will know what happened."
Ms Suarez said the agents "were all drunk, they drank vodka like water" and that it appeared neither Mr Huntington nor the other agents were armed, the New York Post reported.
Ms Suarez said that Mr Huntington had been drunk but aware of his surroundings and was clear she was charging US$800 for the night.
"Okay baby let's go, let's go to the hotel," she said in English quoting the agent. By the next morning, she said, he was a different man. "At first he was very loving but when he sobered up, he was mean."
"Get out b****," he yelled when he woke up and she asked for the cash.
His partners begged her not to call the Colombian police as hotel security staff tried to quell the problem. She said: "They kept saying 'please no police'."
Mr Huntington remained barricaded in his room during the early-morning three-hour drama. She left after three of Mr Huntington's co-workers gave her US$250.
