WASHINGTON - France's new leader Francois Hollande has sparked US curiosity and some concern over his stance on the Afghan war, but experts see common interests with President Barack Obama on Iran and the euro.
The new French president, chosen by voters to take over from the pro-American Nicolas Sarkozy, will be getting very familiar with the United States and the conventions of international summitry very soon.
He will spend much of the first week of his five-year mandate on US soil, after his inauguration on May 15, at the G8 summit of industrialized nations at Camp David, Maryland and the NATO summit in Chicago.
Obama quickly called Hollande, the first Socialist in the Elysee Palace since 1995, after his election on Sunday, as befitting the new leader of a United Nations Security Council ally with 3,600 troops in Afghanistan.
Those troops could be the source of the first Franco-US divergence of the new presidency, since Hollande swept to power promising to bring the soldiers home two years before NATO troops hand security control to Afghans in 2014.
"This is a unilateral decision by France, which will be counterproductive, but it isn't the end of the world and it is not going to mess up the NATO summit," said Justin Vaisse of The Brookings Institution.
The US president is familiar with political power won with promises of troop withdrawals - having taken the White House after vowing to end the Iraq war.
And Obama may have defused any tensions with France with his trip to Afghanistan last week, to sign a deal that will end the foreign combat mission in 2014, but ensure a US anti-terror presence for 10 years.
The deal gives NATO member states some breathing room at home, said Charles Kupchan of the Council on Foreign Relations.
"It won't be that difficult to find a deal that will keep Hollande happy and that adheres to the dictum in together, out together," he said.
Obama will meet Hollande just six months out from his own date with voters, as he fights a close reelection battle with Republican Mitt Romney, and is primarily concerned with issues like Iran and the eurozone crisis.
Hollande has signaled that there will be "continuity" between his position on ending Iran's contested nuclear program and Sarkozy's hawkish approach, with new talks between Tehran and world powers set for Baghdad on May 23.
Unlike Sarkozy, however, Hollande may be prepared to accept an eventual compromise solution that allows Tehran to keep a civil nuclear program.
Hollande may also find a receptive audience at the White House for his view that the austerity programs adopted in the eurozone may now be counterproductive and that more pro-growth policies are needed.
Washington has been frustrated with austerity measures, and concern has deepened as parts of Europe lurch back into recession, with unemployment still rampant and public debt swollen.
There are fears of a new slowdown on the continent, and a return to crisis could further damage the sluggish US recovery.
"I think that we'll hear more American commentary that will be more supportive of Mr Hollande's view that you cannot just do austerity alone," said Heather Conley of the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
"There must be a balance between fiscal consolidation (and growth); you can't just get into a vicious cycle."
Kupchan said that Obama will greet a European leader who shares his view of more growth and less austerity with open arms, after chafing at German Chancellor Angela Merkel's "obsession" with fiscal belt-tightening.
"It may be that Hollande leads a pro-growth coalition that produces a more balanced policy, and I think that Washington would welcome that shift," he said.
But the analyst warned that markets could be spooked if Hollande implements a domestic platform of more spending resulting in more public debt, a development that Washington would regard with alarm as it seeks to keep a firewall around the euro crisis.
Obama will also notice a change in style between the sober Hollande and the hyperactive and outspoken Sarkozy on foreign policy issues.
"I don't expect there to be any major daylight between Washington and Paris, but I expect Paris to hang back and for Hollande not to get out in front of these issues like Libya, Iran and the Middle East in the way that Sarkozy did," Kupchan said.
"I think that he'll be a more cautious and more circumspect leader."
