US NAVAL BASE AT GUANTANAMO BAY - The five men accused of plotting the September 11 attacks openly defied a military tribunal Saturday, refusing to answer questions, with one charging the US was trying to kill them.
"Maybe you're not going to see us any more," Ramzi Binalshibh shouted out in a dramatic intervention at the arraignment hearing in the US base in Cuba, telling Judge James Pohl, "You are going to kill us."
Kahlid Sheikh Mohammed, 47, the self-confessed mastermind of the 2001 attacks and his four co-defendants, were appearing in public for the first time in three years at the hotly-awaited hearing.
Dressed in white jumpsuits, with some wearing white turbans, the men mostly watched the proceedings in silence, refusing to engage with the officials.
Binalshibh interrupted however by suddenly standing to pray, and then alternately kneeling and standing.
He also shouted out: "The era of Gaddafi is over but you have Gaddafi in the camp ... you are going to kill us and say that we are committing suicide."
They were being arraigned for the killing of 2,976 people on September 11, 2001 when Al-Qaeda militants flew hijacked airliners into the World Trade Center in New York, the Pentagon, and a field in Pennsylvania.
Only one, Walid bin Attash, was handcuffed when the group was brought into court, but Pohl ordered the manacles removed after being assured he would "behave appropriately."
"Prosecution is ready to proceed in the case of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed," chief prosecutor Brigadier General Mark Martins told the military tribunal.
The arraignment, one of the last steps before a so-called "trial of the century" takes place, marks the second time the United States has tried to prosecute the 9/11 suspects.
Also in court were Mohammed's Pakistani nephew Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali - also known as Ammar al-Baluchi - and Mustapha al-Hawsawi of Saudi Arabia.
Most of the time the five men kept their eyes fixed on the ground.
Two of them were reading a book which appeared to be the Koran, while they were also passing a copy of The Economist magazine among themselves.
The hearing, which began at 9:30 am local time, was still continuing by early evening and expected to last well into the night with the defense examining every detail.
Mohammed, dubbed KSM for his initials, remained calm, his long, flowing beard appearing to have been dyed with red henna.
Mohammed's lawyer David Nevin said his client, who three years ago confessed to the 9/11 attacks "from A to Z," probably would not speak at the hearing because he is "deeply concerned by the fairness of the process."
The accused men also refused to wear headphones to hear the simultanous translation of the proceedings, which were being held in English.
Their lawyers said it reminded them of their harsh interrogations.
Bin Attash's civilian attorney Cheryl Borman, the only woman on the defense team, was dressed in black and wore a hijab. "Because of what happened to them ... during the last eight years, these men have been mistreated," she argued.
The hearing comes about one year after President Barack Obama ordered the US Navy SEALs raid that killed Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden.
The five men have been held for years at the US naval base in southeastern Cuba while a legal and political battle has played out over how and where to prosecute them. Debates have also raged over their treatment.
Mohammed was arrested in 2003 and spent three years in secret CIA jails where he was subjected to harsh interrogations, including waterboarding, and confessed to a series of attacks and plots.
In a sign of the acute public interest in the proceedings, the Pentagon has opened four military bases in the United States to allow families of the 9/11 victims to watch the case unfold on a giant screen.
Out of 200 applicants, 60 journalists obtained seats for the hearing, while another 30 are covering the event from Fort Meade in Maryland using a closed-circuit television feed. Ten relatives were also allowed inside the tribunal to watch the proceedings.
The trial could still be years away, unless Mohammed pleads guilty to be put to death sooner and become a "martyr" for Al-Qaeda.
Cliff Russell, whose firefighter brother was killed when the World Trade Center's twin towers collapsed in New York, was among those attending.
"I'm not looking forward to taking somebody's life... but it's the most disgusting, hateful awful thing I ever could think of; it's crazy," said Russell.
