When the temperature soars and the humidity makes you anxious and fretful, you might crave an aromatherapy massage with lavender oil, or perhaps a cooling bath with foaming mousse, all in the comfort of your own home.
Well, you can have this if you're Liang Sihong's golden retriever. Seven-year-old Duo Duo starts his daily treatment with traditional aromatherapy (inhaled from a diffuser) in the morning, usually with essential oils of camomile or bergamot. In the afternoon Duo Duo's 20-minute massage focuses on his limbs and is followed by a back massage delivered by his favorite therapist, his owner.
Liang Sihong, a therapist and freelance writer who specializes in columns about the use of essential plant oils, earned a qualification in aromatherapy in Germany in 2006, but only became interested in animal aromatherapy two years ago.
Liang said the principle is the same for humans and animals. When the nose senses the oil, the oil molecules are transmitted as electrical impulses, which are then processed in the part of their brain where memories and emotions are stored. That prompts the release of chemicals such as serotonin, which has a calming effect, noradrenaline, which stimulates and rejuvenates, and endorphins, which help to relieve pain. Once the molecules have been processed by the brain, they enter the bloodstream and make their way through the body. If the oils are rubbed in, the molecules are absorbed through the skin and enter the bloodstream that way.
"I've got two dogs: a golden retriever who's just approaching old age and a much younger English pointer," said Liang, who regards animal aromatherapy more as a personal hobby than a serious business proposition. "Duo Duo accepts most of the essential oil scents, while the pointer is rather picky. He only likes the expensive ones such as sandalwood and neroli. If you try him with relatively stronger smells such as tea tree or peppermint, he will simply run away."
"It is always best to let the dog smell the oil before it's applied. Then watch for signs of acceptance, such as wanting to lick the oil, rubbing against you or looking wide-eyed and bushy-tailed. Indications that the animal dislikes the smell include turning the head away, panting, drooling, pacing, whining and sneezing or snorting," said Liang.
Liang said animal aromatherapy originated at 18th-century European racecourses. "Vets would pay special attention to the valuable horses if the animals were anxious before a race or carrying an injury. Aromatherapy is the perfect solution for those conditions because it has no side effects," she said.
Nowadays, animal aromatherapy is widely used in Western countries as an alternative to treating pets with pharmaceuticals. "It can help with emotional problems, including anxiety, nervousness and stress - many dogs have a separation phobia if the owner insists on a 'one-dog policy' (rather than raising two or more dogs together), and mild smells such as lavender and camomile can reduce their panic level," she said. "Aromatherapy is also useful for physical ailments such as problems with joints, the skin and the digestive tract."
Taking Duo Duo as an example, Liang said older large and medium-sized dogs often suffer from problems with their hips and other joints. "Thanks to the help of cypress and juniper berry oils, Duo Duo barely shows her age (because those oils can prevent joints from degenerating)," said Liang, who added that the therapy is more effective at preventing physical problems rather than curing them. "A 20-minute massage every other day will help your dog to stay as energetic as a puppy."
